---
cnum: EN-1112
title: "Engineering Systems and Safety"
subtitle: "MMA Course EN-1112"
major: D/E
---

### Course Description

This course will teach students the fundamental engineering concepts related to the steam and water cycle and steam generation. The students will also learn about various primary and auxiliary engineering systems. The lab familiarizes the students with the safe operation of the engine room and engineering systems on board the training ship and provides students with basic first aid and occupational safety certification. [Lab time required]

This course consists of two 1-hour classes a week for a semester, eight 3-hour labs with practical assessments, and a comprehensive final exam.

### Entrance requirements

None

### Learning Objectives

**Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following STCW elements:**

* {% table 34.html#RFPEW-A1.3, RFPEW-A1.3 %} *Safe working practices as related to engine-room operations*
* {% table 34.html#RFPEW-A3.2, RFPEW-A3.2 %} *Know escape routes from machinery spaces*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-A9.1, ABE-A9.1 %} *Safe use and operation of electrical equipment*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-A9.1, ABE-A9.1 %} *Safety precautions before commencing work or repair*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-A9.1, ABE-A9.1 %} *Electrical isolation procedures*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-A9.1, ABE-A9.1 %} *Electrical emergency procedures*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-A9.2, ABE-A9.2 %} *Knowledge of the causes of electric shock*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-A9.2, ABE-A9.2 %} *Precautions to be observed to prevent shock*
*  *Electrical safety*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-C3.1, ABE-C3.1 %} *Lockout/tag-out*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-C3.1, ABE-C3.1 %} *Mechanical safety*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-C3.1, ABE-C3.1 %} *Permit to work systems*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-C3.1, ABE-C3.1 %} *Working in enclosed spaces*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-C3.1, ABE-C3.1 %} *Lifting techniques and methods of preventing back injury*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-C3.1, ABE-C3.1 %} *Chemical and biohazard safety*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-C3.1, ABE-C3.1 %} *Personal safety equipment*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A4.1, OICEW-A4.1 %} *Characteristics of lubricating oil systems*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A4.1, OICEW-A4.1 %} *Characteristics of fuel oil systems*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A4.1, OICEW-A4.1 %} *Characteristics of cooling systems*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-C1.5, OICEW-C1.5 %} *Safety measures to be taken to ensure a safe working environment*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-C2.1, OICEW-C2.1 %} *Safety measures to be taken for repair and maintenance*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-C2.1, OICEW-C2.1 %} *Safe isolation of shipboard machinery and equipment before personnel are permitted to work*
* {% table 25.html#ABD-C2.1, ABD-C2.1 %} *Working in enclosed spaces*
* {% table 25.html#ABD-C2.1, ABD-C2.1 %} *Permit to work systems*
* {% table 25.html#ABD-C2.1, ABD-C2.1 %} *Lifting techniques and methods of preventing back injury*
* {% table 25.html#ABD-C2.1, ABD-C2.1 %} *Electrical safety*
* {% table 25.html#ABD-C2.1, ABD-C2.1 %} *Mechanical safety*
* {% table 25.html#ABD-C2.1, ABD-C2.1 %} *Chemical and biohazard safety*
* {% table 25.html#ABD-C2.1, ABD-C2.1 %} *Personal safety equipment*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-D8.4, OICEW-D8.4 %} *Knowledge of personal safety*
* {% table 614.html#PSSR-X3.1, PSSR-X3.1 %} *Importance of adhering to safe working practices at all times*
* {% table 614.html#PSSR-X3.2, PSSR-X3.2 %} *Safety and protective devices available to protect against potential hazards aboard ship*
* {% table 614.html#PSSR-X3.3, PSSR-X3.3 %} *Precautions to be taken prior to entering enclosed spaces*
* {% table 614.html#PSSR-X6.1, PSSR-X6.1 %} *Importance of obtaining the necessary rest*
* {% table 614.html#PSSR-X6.2, PSSR-X6.2 %} *Effects of sleep, schedules, and the circadian rhythm on fatigue*
* {% table 614.html#PSSR-X6.3, PSSR-X6.3 %} *Effects of physical stressors on seafarers*
* {% table 614.html#PSSR-X6.4, PSSR-X6.4 %} *Effects of environmental stressors in and outside the ship and their impact on seafarers*
* {% table 614.html#PSSR-X6.5, PSSR-X6.5 %} *Effects of schedule changes on seafarer fatigue*
* {% table 21.html#OICNW-C8.4, OICNW-C8.4 %} *Knowledge of personal safety*
* {% table 5111.html#TOPS-X3.2, TOPS-X3.2 %} *Protective clothing and equipment*


### Topics


**Lecture**

1.	Steam Cycle
2.	4-Stages of the Steam Cycle
3.	Ship/vessel Terminology
4.	Ship Emergency Alarms
5.	PPE
6.	Propulsion Modes: Steam, Diesel, Gas Turbine, Electric
7.	Principles of Thermodynamics
8.	Basic Steam Table
9.	Heat Exchangers
10.	Gages
11.	Intro to Boilers
12.	Intro to Steam Turbines
13.	Condensers
14.	Pressure and Vacuum Conversions
15.	Temperature Conversions
16.	Intro to Diesel Engines
17.	Confined Spaces
18.	Ladder Safety
19.	LOTO
20.	Valves
21.	Pumps
22.	Fatigue
23.	Electrical Safety


**OSHA Lab**


1. Brief introduction to OSHA
1. Electrical, general,   safety related work practices 1910.331 - 335
1. Lockout/Tagout Procedures 1910.147
1. Personal Protective Equipment,  Subpart I, 1910.132 - 138
1. Respiratory Protection, 1910.134 
1. Hearing Protection, 1910.195
1. Confined Spaces, 1910.146
1. Hazard Communication 1910.1200 (Material Safety Data Sheets)
1. Bloodborne Pathogens,  1910.1030
1. Emergency Action Plans, Fire Prevention, from 1910 Subparts E and L
1. Fall Protection – 1926.502 General,  guardrails,  fall arrest systems
1. Hand and portable power tools, general,  1910 Subpart P
1. Machine Guarding, general, 1910 Subpart O






**Other objectives**

* Understanding of steam cycle component pressures temperatures and terminology
* Engine room watch keeping procedures
* Engine room safe working practices including lock-out-tag-out and confined space
* Engine room alarm and evacuation procedures and emergency equipment
* Basic maintenance of machinery and equipment
* Knowledge of personal safety and social responsibility
* Safe operation of boilers
* Fighting fires onboard ship
* Emergency equipment and emergency procedures
* Seafarer Fatigue

### For more information, see 

* {% imagelink EN1112-Stanton-F15.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink EN-1112-F16-syllabus-GILL-ESS.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink EN-1112-MMA _OSHA_Student_Booklet_2017_v4.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink EN-1112-F17_osha_syllabus.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink EN-1112-Lab_Manual_2017.pdf %} 



