---
cnum: EN-2111
subtitle: "Auxiliary Machinery II"
title: "MMA Course EN-2111"
major: E
---

### Course Description

A continuation of {% course EN-1211 %} *Auxiliary Machinery I* and covers the construction, operation, maintenance, and repair of basic power plant systems, steam traps, strainers, pumps, heat exchangers, condensers, air ejectors, deaerators, hydraulic systems and components, and air compressors and systems. The lab consists of CAD use to draw specific training ship systems; the use of cutaway equipment, operational trainers, and simulators; and the use of actual ship’s equipment to enhance the understanding of material presented in the course. [Lab time required]

This course consists of three 1-hour classes a week for a semester, six 4-hour labs with practical assessments, and a comprehensive final exam.

### Entrance requirements

* Demonstrate a basic understanding of piping systems
* Understand the construction and function of valves
* Understand the operation and design of pressure and temperature regulating devices
* Understand the construction, operation, and function of pressures and temperature measuring devices


### Learning Objectives

**Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following STCW elements:**

* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A1.2, OICEW-A1.2 %} *Change-over of remote/automatic to local control of all systems*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A4.1, OICEW-A4.1 %} *Basic construction and operation principles of air compressors*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A4.1, OICEW-A4.1 %} *Basic construction and operation principles of fresh water generators*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A4.1, OICEW-A4.1 %} *Basic construction and operation principles of steering gear*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A4.1, OICEW-A4.1 %} *Basic construction and operation principles of deck machinery*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A4.3, OICEW-A4.3 %} *Preparation, operation, fault detection and measures to prevent damage for auxiliary prime movers and associated systems*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A4.3, OICEW-A4.3 %} *Preparation, operation, fault detection and measures to prevent damage for auxiliary machinery*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-C2.3, OICEW-C2.3 %} *Dismantling, adjustment and reassembling of machinery and equipment*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-C2.4, OICEW-C2.4 %} *The use of appropriate specialized tools*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-C2.7, OICEW-C2.7 %} *The interpretation of piping, hydraulic and pneumatic diagrams*

**Demonstrate proficiency in the following skills:**

* {% assessment OICEW-5-1D %} *Start and secure air compressor*
* {% assessment OICEW-8-2A %} *Centrifugal pump maintenance (mechanical seal)*
* {% assessment OICEW-8-2B %} *Reciprocating pump maintenance*
* {% assessment OICEW-8E2B %} *Centrifugal pump maintenance (packing)*

### Topics

1. Thermodynamic Properties/Steam Traps
2. Centrifugal Pumps 	 
3. Positive Displacement Pumps	 
4. Heat Exchangers/Cooling Towers 
5. Air Compressors and Compressed Air Systems 
6. Hydraulics and Hydraulic Systems	 
7. Air Removal Equipment 
8. Evaporators, MSD units and Oil/Water separators


**Other objectives**

* Read and follow written instructions.
* Read and understand a blueprint.
* Properly handle basic hand tools.
* Gain an appreciation of the dependence of the auxiliary systems serving a power plant.
* Understand the principles of operation and the construction details of Auxiliary Machinery.
* Disassemble and reassemble centrifugal pumps.
* Operate a pump, monitoring suction, discharge pressures and power requirements.
* Disassemble and reassemble a duplex, double acting reciprocating pump, set the steam admission valves properly, prove the correct settings by actual operation in a closed circuit system.
* Disassemble and reassemble a two stage reciprocating air compressor. Run the air compressor to demonstrate correct operation.
* Perform a complete pump alignment. Prove alignment within 0.002".
* Identify hydraulic components.
* Disassemble, inspect and reassemble hydraulic pumps and control devices.
* Construct hydraulic systems on hydraulic simulator.
* Operate hydraulic systems and demonstrate proper operation.

### For more information, see 

* {% imagelink EN2111-Gill-F15.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink EN2111-Humprey-F15.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink EN2111-Trudeau-F15.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink EN2111-labmanual-F15.pdf %} 



