---
cnum: EN-2121
subtitle: "Auxiliary Machinery II for Facilities"
title: "MMA Course EN-2121"
major: E
status: new
---

### Course Description

The course is a continuation of {% course EN-1222 %} *Auxiliary Machinery I* and covers the installation, operation, maintenance, and repair of operating machinery including steam traps, strainers, pumps, compressors, heat exchangers, vacuum pumps, air injectors, deaerators, hydraulic and pneumatic systems, and basic operating characteristics of combined-cycle operation. The lab consists of the breakdown and repair of operating pumps and compressors including the electrical demand parameters of the machinery both loaded and unloaded. The lab uses cutaway equipment and operational trainers and simulators to enhance the understanding of the material presented in the course. [Lab time required]

This course consists of three 1-hour classes a week for a semester, six 4-hour labs with practical assessments, and a comprehensive final exam.

### Entrance requirements

* Demonstrate a basic understanding of piping systems
* Understand the construction and function of valves
* Understand the operation and design of pressure and temperature regulating devices
* Understand the construction, operation, and function of pressures and temperature measuring devices


### Learning Objectives



### Topics

1. Thermodynamic Properties/Steam Traps
2. Centrifugal Pumps 	 
3. Positive Displacement Pumps	 
4. Heat Exchangers/Cooling Towers 
5. Air Compressors and Compressed Air Systems 
6. Hydraulics and Hydraulic Systems	 
7. Air Removal Equipment 
8. Evaporators, MSD units and Oil/Water separators


**Other objectives**

* Read and follow written instructions.
* Read and understand a blueprint.
* Properly handle basic hand tools.
* Gain an appreciation of the dependence of the auxiliary systems serving a power plant.
* Understand the principles of operation and the construction details of Auxiliary Machinery.
* Disassemble and reassemble centrifugal pumps.
* Operate a pump, monitoring suction, discharge pressures and power requirements.
* Disassemble and reassemble a duplex, double acting reciprocating pump, set the steam admission valves properly, prove the correct settings by actual operation in a closed circuit system.
* Disassemble and reassemble a two stage reciprocating air compressor. Run the air compressor to demonstrate correct operation.
* Perform a complete pump alignment. Prove alignment within 0.002".
* Identify hydraulic components.
* Disassemble, inspect and reassemble hydraulic pumps and control devices.
* Construct hydraulic systems on hydraulic simulator.
* Operate hydraulic systems and demonstrate proper operation.

### For more information, see 

* {% imagelink EN-2121-F21-syllabus-Mcclellan.pdf		 %} 
* {% imagelink EN-2121-F22-syllabus-Hibbert.pdf %} 



