---
cnum: EN-2112
subtitle: "Machine Tool Technology"
title: "MMA Course EN-2112"
major: E
status: 
---

### Course Description

This course provides practical experience in the use of machine tools. Emphasis is on shop safety, use of measuring instruments, hand tools, horizontal band saw, drill press, screw cutting lathe, electric arc welding, oxyfuel welding, and oxyfuel cutting. The lab also consists of a half semester of “hands-on” introduction to electric arc welding and machine tool operation, including safety. [Lab time required]

This course consists of one hour a week of instruction for a semester, twelve 3-hour labs with practical assessments, and completion of a final project.

### Entrance requirements

* Identify basic hand tools
* Operate small hand power tools
* Differentiate between different metals
* Make rough measurements


### Learning Objectives

**Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following STCW elements:**

* {% table 35.html#ABE-B1.6, ABE-B1.6 %} *Knowledge of the application, maintenance and use of hand tools*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-B1.6, ABE-B1.6 %} *Knowledge of the application, maintenance and use of power tools*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-B1.6, ABE-B1.6 %} *Knowledge of the application, maintenance and use of measuring instruments*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-B1.6, ABE-B1.6 %} *Knowledge of the application, maintenance and use of machine tools*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-B1.7, ABE-B1.7 %} *Knowledge of metalwork*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-C1.2, OICEW-C1.2 %} *Characteristics and limitations of processes used for fabrication and repair*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-C1.3, OICEW-C1.3 %} *Properties and parameters considered in the fabrication and repair of systems and components*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-C1.5, OICEW-C1.5 %} *Safety measures for using hand tools*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-C1.5, OICEW-C1.5 %} *Safety measures for using machine tools*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-C1.5, OICEW-C1.5 %} *Safety measures for using measuring instruments*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-C1.6, OICEW-C1.6 %} *Use of machine tools*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-C2.4, OICEW-C2.4 %} *The use of measuring instruments*

**Demonstrate proficiency in the following skills:**

* {% assessment OICEW-1-1A %} *Cut a circular hole using oxyacetylene process*
* {% assessment OICEW-1-1B %} *Form two steel plates using brazing process*
* {% assessment OICEW-1-1C %} *Form two steel plates using electric arc welding process*
* {% assessment OICEW-1-1F %} *Visual test of welded joint*
* {% assessment OICEW-1-1G %} *Dye-penetrant test*
* {% assessment OICEW-8-1A %} *Lathe project*

### Topics

1. Hazards in lathe operations and welding safety
2. Toolholders and cutting tools: identification, design and procedure for making single point cutting tool used for threading and turning
3. Oxy-fuel cutting: set-up and operation
4. Basic engine lathe design
5. Lathe spindle tooling: chucks, faceplates, operation and maintenance
6. Lathe controls: spindle speeds, feeds, operations, direction, threading
7. Facing and center drilling in the lathe
8. Base metal prep: cleaning, joint design, and joint prep
9. Work between lathe centers: difference between chuck and center work
10. Alignment of lathe centers: different methods
11. Weld quality
12. Other lathe operations: drilling, boring reaming, parting, knurling
13. SMAW equip and setup
14. Threading calculations: depth, fit, infeeds
15. Cutting Unified and American National Std threads
16. SMAW electrodes and selection
17. Benchwork and hand tools: hacksaws, files, reamers, taps, dies
18. SMAW beads and fillet welds
19. Measurement: steel rules, vernier calipers, dial calipers, micrometers
20. Groove welds
21. Cutting tapers: methods, calculations, set-up
22. Joint fit-up
23. Using Steady and Follower Rests
24. Open V groove welds
25. Using cutoff machines: reciprocating and horizontal band
26. Preparation and usage of vertical band machines
27. SMAW pipe welds
28. Drilling machine types and usage
29. Drilling tools and operations
30. NDT: methods, identification of discontinuities



**Other objectives**

* Set-up and dress the wheels on the bench grinder
* Off-hand grind a 60 degree thread form and radius thread form on a high speed steel tool blank
* Set-up and operate the lathe and tooling for facing, centerdrilling, turning and threading a test coupon to blueprint specifications
* Correctly align tool and test coupon and chase an existing thread
* Operate the horizontal band saw, vertical band saw, drill press, hydraulic press and hand tools
* Use precision measuring instruments
* Set up and use an oxy-fuel cutting torch
* Set-up and adjust SMAW equipment and weld a T-Joint
* Set-up and adjust oxyfuel equipment and weld a lap joint
* Identify welding defects using dye penetrant testing


### For more information, see 

* {% imagelink EN2112-Mahoney-F15.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink EN-2112-Mahoney-S16.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink EN2112-MTTmanual-F15.pdf %} 



