---
cnum: EN-3111
subtitle: "Electrical Machines"
title: "MMA Course EN-3111"
major: E
status: 
---

### Course Description

Students study AC and DC theory as applied to motors, generators, and power distribution systems. The course also considers preventative maintenance and repair of rotating and static electrical equipment; turboelectric drive principles and operation; and U.S. Coast Guard electrical engineering rules and regulations. The lab component covers ship and shore-side machinery.

This course consists of three 1-hour classes a week for a semester and a comprehensive final exam.

### Entrance requirements

* Describe and use the fundamental concepts of dynamics as taught in Engine Physics II
* Solve simple circuits using Ohm's Law and Kirchoff's Law
* Describe Farriday's Law of Electromagnetic Induction


### STCW Objectives

**Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following STCW elements:**

* {% table 31.html#OICEW-B1.1, OICEW-B1.1 %} *Basic configuration and operation principles of electrical generators*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-B1.1, OICEW-B1.1 %} *Basic configuration and operation principles of electrical distribution systems*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-B1.1, OICEW-B1.1 %} *Basic configuration and operation principles of electrical motorrs*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-B1.1, OICEW-B1.1 %} *Basic configuration and operation principles of high-voltage installations*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-B1.1, OICEW-B1.1 %} *Electrical motor starting methodologies*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-B1.1, OICEW-B1.1 %} *Preparing, starting, paralleling and changing over generators*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-B2.1, OICEW-B2.1 %} *Safe isolation of electrical equipment required before personnel are permitted to work on such equipment*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-B2.1, OICEW-B2.1 %} *Safety requirements for working on shipboard electrical systems*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-B2.2, OICEW-B2.2 %} *Maintenance and repair of DC electrical systems and equipment*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-B2.2, OICEW-B2.2 %} *Maintenance and repair of electric motors and generators*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-B2.2, OICEW-B2.2 %} *Maintenance and repair of electrical switchboards*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-B2.2, OICEW-B2.2 %} *Maintenance and repair of electrical system equipment*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-B2.3, OICEW-B2.3 %} *Detection of electric malfunctions*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-B2.3, OICEW-B2.3 %} *Location of faults causing electrical malfunctions*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-B2.3, OICEW-B2.3 %} *Measures to prevent damage caused by electrical malfunctions*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-B2.4, OICEW-B2.4 %} *Construction of electrical testing and measuring equipment*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-B2.4, OICEW-B2.4 %} *Operation of electrical testing and measuring equipment*



### Topics

1. Current, Voltage, Resistance
2. DC Circuits and Circuit Faults
3. Magnetic Fields and Circuits
4. Basic Magnetic Circuit
5. Energy in a magnetic field
6. Capacitors
7. Current, Voltage, and Impedance
8. Resonance and Harmonics
9. Power Factor
10. Three Phase Systems
11. Transformers
12. Three Phase Induction Motors
13. Synchronous Motors
14. 3 Phase Motor Operation
15. AC Generators
16. Single Phase AC Motors
17. DC Generators
18. DC Motors
19. Battery Systems
20. Grounding



**Other objectives**


* Describe the principles of operation of electrical machinery typically found on ships
* Calculate circuit properties such as current, voltage, power, and power factor for single and three phase AC circuits
* Describe the conditions necessary to parallel AC Generators
* Describe why power factor correction is desirable, and how it is accomplished
* Describe the effects of resonance on electric circuits


### For more information, see 

* {% imagelink EN-3111-F22-syllabus-hibbard.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink EN-3111-S23-syllabus-hibbard.pdf %} 



