---
cnum: EN-3213
subtitle: "Refrigeration"
title: "MMA Course EN-3213"
major: E
status: 
---

### Course Description

An in-depth study of refrigeration and the design, operation, maintenance, and repair of environmental control systems. The impact of refrigerants regarding ozone depletion and global warming is covered in detail. [Lab time required]

This course consists of three 1-hour classes a week for a semester, six 3-hour labs  with practical assessments, and a comprehensive final exam.

### Entrance requirements

* Explain the concept of a closed cycle
* Explain the steam cycle and its use of superheat and sub-cooling within the cycle
* Explain and define sensible heat and latent heat
* Calculate formulae using simple algebra
* Display their knowledge OF pumps and valves (as learned in Auxiliary machinery)


### STCW Objectives

**Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following STCW elements:**

* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A4.1, OICEW-A4.1 %} *Basic construction and operation principles of refrigeration, air-conditioning and ventilation systems*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A4.3, OICEW-A4.3 %} *Preparation, operation, fault detection and measures to prevent damage for refrigeration, air-conditioning and ventilation systems*


**Demonstrate proficiency in the following skills:**

* {% assessment OICEW-5-1B %} *Start refrigeration system*
* {% assessment OICEW-5-1C %} *Shut down refrigeration system*


### Topics

1. Introduction / History / Safety
2. Basic Refrigeration Cycle
3. Ideal Gas Law / Pressure Temperature Charts
4. Vapor Compression Systems
5. Refrigeration System Characteristics and System Design Calculations
6. Properties of Refrigerants
7. Refrigerant System Lubrication
8. Refrigerant Recovery
9. Compressors
10. Flow Controls
11. Rules and Regulations
12. Condensers
13. Evaporators
14. System Troubleshooting
15. Low pressure systems & Chillers
16. Pressure switches & Thermostats
17. Heat Pumps
18. Psychrometrics
19. Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning
20. Containerized Refrigeration


**Other objectives**



* Explain the purpose and interrelations of the components of a refrigeration system
* Explain the basic construction and operating principles of refrigeration, air-conditioning and ventilation systems.
* Properly prepare, start, operate, fault detect and determine through measurement the operating status of  refrigeration systems system to ensure damage prevention.
* Determine the refrigerant used in a system
* Explain the process to perform leak detection, system maintenance and repair
* Safely recover, evacuate, recharge a system
* Calculate required refrigeration load


### For more information, see 

* {% imagelink EN-3213_LAB_policy_F22.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink EN-3213-F22-syllabus-DeMoranville.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink EN-3213-LAB_policy-SP23.pdf %} 



