---
cnum: EN-3111L
title: "Electrical Machines Lab"
subtitle: "MMA Course EN-3111L"
major: E
---

### Course Description

Theoretical and practical aspects of the operation and maintenance of electrical machinery, including: electric circuits and wiring, AC and DC motors and generators, transformers, motor controls, and troubleshooting.

This course consists of twelve, 2-hour long labs with practical assessments, and a final exam.

### Entrance requirements

Concurrent attendance or successful completion of [EN-3111](en-3111.html).

### Learning Objectives


**Demonstrate proficiency in the following skills:**

* {% assessment OICEW-3-1A %} *Plan and use test equipment*
* {% assessment OICEW-3-1B %} *Troubleshoot electrical motor control system*
* {% assessment OICEW-7-1E %} *Parallel generators*

### Topics

1. Alternating Current Principles.
2. Three Phase Transformers.
3. Three Phase Induction Motors.
4. DC Generators.
5. Synchronous Generators.
6. Generator Paralleling.


1. Residential Wiring;   
Lock-out / Tag-out Procedures;   
Use of Voltmeter, Ammeter, Wiggy, DMM.    
2. Basic Principles of Motor Control.
3. Basic Control Circuits. 
4. Jogging Control Circuits.
5. Reduced Voltage Starters.
6. Time Relays;    
High Voltage switchgear.



**Other objectives**


* Measure voltage, amperage, and resistance with a DMM
* Measure amplitude, frequency, period and phase shifts of sine waves using an oscilloscope
* Measure wattage, vars, va, and power factor using a power meter
* Lock-out and tag out electrical circuits
* Wire a three-way lighting circuit
* Connect three phase transformers in delta and wye configurations, and describe the resulting voltage and current relationships
* Demonstrate the operating characteristics of three phase induction motors
* Demonstrate the operating characteristics of single phase motors
* Demonstrate the operation of unloaded and loaded synchronous generators
* Parallel a AC Generator with the bus or another generator
* Demonstrate the operating principles of two-wire and three-wire control circuits
* Demonstrate the operating principles jogging and breaking circuits
* Demonstrate the operating principles reduced voltage and soft starters
* Wire single- and three-phase motors to UVR and UVP motor controllers
* Describe the operation and troubleshoot a magnetic motor controllers
* Describe the purpose a thermal overload relay
* Describe what is meant by sustained overload protection and interrupting capacity
* Describe safety requirements for working with high voltage equipment
* Describe configuration and operation of 5 kV circuit breaker in the laboratory


### For more information, see 

* {% imagelink EN-3111L-EmachLabSyllabusF16.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink EN-3111L-Haynes-S16.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink EN-3111L-lab_manual.pdf %} 



