---
cnum: EN-4231
subtitle: "Sea Term IV: Marine Engineering"
title: "MMA Course EN-4231"
major: E
---

### Course Description

Provides an opportunity for cadets to obtain sea service and engineering watchstanding experience in a structured shipboard training program which is compliant with Chapter III of STCW and the requirements of 46 CFR. The training uses a building-block approach bringing the cadet up to an acceptable level of proficiency in each area of required competence. Shipboard training is closely integrated with the shore-based academic curriculum at the Academy which includes a range of simulation and practical lab experiences. All phases of training are conducted by STCW Qualified Instructors and Designated Examiners.

This course consists of an approximately 52-day long shipboard experence on the training vessel including watchstanding, maintenance and training.

### Entrance requirements

*  Successful completion of Seaterm III ({% course EN-3231 %} or {% course EN-3232 %})
*  Successful demonstration of Marine Engineering knowledge by achieving a 70% or higher on the Cadet Oiler's Qualification Exam
*  Ability to respond to shipboard emergency signals
*  Ability to safely evacuate engine room during emergency drills and situations.
*  Ability to properly and safely use hand tools for maintenance and repair of shipboard equipment
*  Ability to operate safely in a shipboard environment

### Learning Objectives

**Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following STCW elements:**

* {% table 35.html#ABE-A4.1, ABE-A4.1 %} *Ability to communicate with the officer of the watch*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-A4.2, ABE-A4.2 %} *Procedures for the relief and handover of a watch*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-A4.2, ABE-A4.2 %} *Procedures for maintenance of an engineering watch*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-A4.3, ABE-A4.3 %} *Information required to maintain a safe engineering watch*
* {% table 35.html#ABE-A9.1, ABE-A9.1 %} *Different voltages on board*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A1.1, OICEW-A1.1 %} *Duties associated with taking over and accepting a watch*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A1.1, OICEW-A1.1 %} *Routine duties undertaken during a watch*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A1.1, OICEW-A1.1 %} *Maintenance of the machinery space logs*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A1.1, OICEW-A1.1 %} *Significance of the machinery space readings taken*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A1.1, OICEW-A1.1 %} *Duties associated with handing over a watch*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A1.2, OICEW-A1.2 %} *Watchstanding safety and emergency procedures*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-A1.3, OICEW-A1.3 %} *Safety precautions to be observed during a watch*

**Demonstrate proficiency in the following skills:**

* {% assessment OICEW-3-1C %} *Detect location of grounds*
* {% assessment OICEW-3-1D %} *Measure insulation resistance*
* {% assessment OICEW-3-1E %} *Determine phase rotation	*
* {% assessment OICEW-4-1A %} *Inspect machinery spaces before assuming watch*
* {% assessment OICEW-4-1B %} *Watch Relief*
* {% assessment OICEW-5-1A %} *Test steering gear and internal communications*
* {% assessment OICEW-5-1F %} *Start fresh water generator*
* {% assessment OICEW-5-1G %} *Shut down fresh water generator*
* {% assessment OICEW-7E4A %} *Disassemble and reassemble an electric motor*
* {% assessment OICEW-4-1C %} *Engineering watchkeeping*


### Topics
 
#### Instruction

*  Engineroom Systems and Equipment
*  Engineroom Safety
*  Engineering Principles
*  Engineering Watchstanding
*  Disassembly, Repair, and Reassembly of Electrical Machines and Electric Control Systems
 
#### Workshop Skills Training (Lab Operations)

*  Electrical Safety
*  Single Phase Motor Control
*  Variable Frequency Drives
*  Insulation Resistance & Meggers  
*  Phase Rotation Testing
*  Disassembly, Maintaining, and Reassembly of Electric Motors 
*  Shipboard Maintenance of Engineering Systems
 
#### Workshop Skills Training (Classroom Knowledge)

*  Engineroom Watchstanding
*  Engineering Systems
*  Steering Gear Systems
*  Main Engineering Operating Console
*  Combustion Control
*  Main Plant Startup
*  Wartsilia Diesel Operation
*  Casualty Control
*  Turbogenerator Operations
*  Electrical Distribution
*  Control Theory
*  Hazardous Materials
 
#### Watchstanding Duties
 
*  1/C Cadet Engineer (CE):  The CE is the senior engineering cadet on watch, and as such is in overall charge of the engine room.  He/she is directly responsible to the Senior Watch Officer for the conduct of the watch and the operation of the ship's power plant, including auxiliary machinery manned by personnel of his/her watch section. The CE is expected to be aware, at all times, of every aspect of the plant's operation.
*  1/C Boiler Engineer (Senior Water-tender): The Senior Water-tender is responsible to the CE for the proper operation of the boilers, fire-room, and main feed system.
*  1/C Upper CE:  The Upper CE must have knowledge of all main engine room systems, with emphasis on the engine room operating level and upper levels, as to their operation under routine and emergency conditions. All normal temperatures, pressures, and levels are to be monitored continuously. Thorough knowledge of standing orders and watch duties of all personal under his/her supervision is also expected. The Upper CE is directly responsible to the CE of the Watch, as well as the Watch Engineer. He/she will assist in the supervision of all machinery spaces.
*  1/C Lower CE:  The Lower CE must have knowledge of all main engine room systems, with emphasis on the engine room lower level, as to their operation under routine and emergency conditions. All normal temperatures, pressures, and levels are to be monitored continuously. Thorough knowledge of standing orders and watch duties of all personal under his/her supervision is also expected. The Lower CE is directly responsible to the CE of the Watch, as well as the Watch Engineer. He/she will assist in the supervision of all machinery spaces, particularly the engine room lower level, and AMR.
*  1/C Auxiliaries Engineer (AMR CE): The AMR CE must have knowledge of all auxiliary systems, with emphasis on those in the AMR, as to their operation under routine and emergency conditions. All normal temperatures, pressures, and levels are to be monitored continuously. Thorough knowledge of standing orders and watch duties of all personal under his/her supervision is also expected. The AMR CE is directly responsible to CE of the Watch, as well as the Watch Engineer. He/she will assist in the supervision of all machinery spaces, particularly the AMR.
*   The Senior Oiler is directly responsible to the CE for the proper operation of all machinery inside and outside of the engine room.
*  1/C Refrigeration Engineer: The Refrigeration Engineer is responsible to the CE for the proper operation of the ship's refrigeration and air conditioning equipment.
*  1/C Evaporator Engineer: The Evaporator Engineer is responsible to the CE for the proper operation of the ship's evaporator equipment.
*  1/C Assistant Cadet Engineer: The Assistant CE is directly responsible to the CE.
*  1/C Sounding and Security Engineer: The Sounding and Security Engineer is directly responsible to the CE.


**Other objectives**


* Demonstrate engineering knowledge by achieving a 70% or higher on the Cadet Engineer's Qualification Exam
* Perform duties of the Cadet Engineer of the Watch
* Perform shipboard maintenance duties as assigned by the ship's officers


### For more information, see 

* {% imagelink EN-4231-McClellan-W16.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink EN-4231-1c-labs-W16.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink Engineering_Training_Program-W16.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink Engineering_Watchstanding_Manual-W16.pdf %} 



