---
cnum: EN-4151
subtitle: "Applied Naval Architecture for Marine Engineers"
title: "MMA Course EN-4151"
major: E
status: 
---

### Course Description

The course includes general naval architecture nomenclature, geometry, hydrostatic curves,  longitudinal stability calculations, identification of principal structural members, and calculations for ship strength curves. The course also studies resistance relationships between an actual ship and a ship model, ship propulsion design requirements, and sizing of a ship’s engine and power plant.

This course consists of three 1-hour classes a week for a semester and a comprehensive final exam.

### Entrance requirements

* Apply mathematical tools from algebra, trigonometry, and calculus
* Find the area under a curve using integration
* Apply principles of engineering mechanics and mechanics of materials
* Draw free body diagrams, and solve for forces acting on an object
* Determine stresses, strains and bending moments
* Calculate centroids and moments of inertia
* Draw shear and bending moment diagrams for a beam under different conditions of loading
* Apply principles of fluid mechanics to find the forces on a submerged object
* Be familiar with ship's nomenclature, ship's propulsion methods, and the parts of a ship


### STCW Objectives

**Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following STCW elements:**

* {% table 31.html#OICEW-C1.1, OICEW-C1.1 %} *Characteristics and limitations of materials used in construction and repair of ships and equipment*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-D2.1, OICEW-D2.1 %} *Working knowledge and application of stability, trim and stress tables, diagrams and stress-calculating equipment*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-D2.2, OICEW-D2.2 %} *Understanding of the fundamentals of watertight integrity*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-D2.3, OICEW-D2.3 %} *Understanding of fundamental actions to be taken in the event of partial loss of intact buoyancy*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-D2.4, OICEW-D2.4 %} *General knowledge of the principal structural members of a ship and the proper names for the various parts*



### Topics

1. Basic nomenclature
2. Weight and Tonnage Terms
3. Ship Hull Form, Sectional Area Curve
5. Archimedes Principle, Volume and Displacement
6. Intro to Hydrostatic Curves
7. Using Hydrostatic Curves
8. Flotation & Initial Transverse Stability at small angles, KGB, and Transverse Metacenter, Centers, Righting Arm
9. Trim & Stability Booklet, Shifting Weights
10. Adding a Weight
11. Removing a Weight
12. Transverse Stability at large angles of heel,
13. Static Stability Curve
15. Effect of Free Surface on GM, Correction to assumed KG for Free Surface Effect
17. Longitudinal Trim & Stability
18. Flooding and Subdivision
19. Ship Structure & nomenclature
20. Ship Strength - Weight curve, Buoyancy curve
21. Ship Strength curves
22. Bending Stress, Moment of Inertia
24. Ship Strength - required Section Modulus
25. Ship Resistance and Modeling



**Other objectives**


* Correctly use the basic nomenclature of ships, ship structure and ship stability
* Use ship's hydrostatic curves-of-form to calculate displacement and initial stability information
* Demonstrate a working knowledge of stability and the effect of load changes on stability, including the use of hydrostatic curves of form 
* Demonstrate a working knowledge of ship's longitudinal and transverse trim and the effect of load changes on trim
* Demonstrate a working knowledge of the causes and effects of stress on a ship's hull
* Calculate gross structural hull loads and calculate longitudinal hull stress under these loads
* Understand the importance of watertight integrity
* Estimate a ship's power requirement based on model test data


### For more information, see 

* {% imagelink EN-4151-Syllabus_NAV_ARCH_S23.pdf %} 



