---
cnum: FF-0108
subtitle: "1/C Advanced Firefighting"
title: "MMA Course FF-0108"
major: D/E
---

### Course Description

Final component of training for Basic and Advanced Marine Firefighting certification (Table A-VI-3). Instruction in shipboard firefighting tactical hazards, fire party drills and organization and hazardous materials. Advanced practical training in the shipboard fire simulator at the Barnstable training site.

This course consists of two hour lecture, and 8-hour practical.


### Learning Objectives

**Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following STCW elements:**

* {% table 31.html#OICEW-D3.1, OICEW-D3.1 %} *Ability to organize fire drills*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-D3.2, OICEW-D3.2 %} *Knowledge of classes and chemistry of fire*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-D3.3, OICEW-D3.3 %} *Knowledge of fire-fighting systems*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-D3.4, OICEW-D3.4 %} *Action to be taken in the event of fire, including fires involving oil systems*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-D8.2, OICEW-D8.2 %} *Knowledge of fire prevention and ability to fight and extinguish fires*
* {% table 21.html#OICNW-C3.1, OICNW-C3.1 %} *Ability to organize fire drills*
* {% table 21.html#OICNW-C3.2, OICNW-C3.2 %} *Knowledge of classes and chemistry of fire*
* {% table 21.html#OICNW-C3.3, OICNW-C3.3 %} *Knowledge of fire-fighting systems*
* {% table 21.html#OICNW-C3.4, OICNW-C3.4 %} *Knowledge of action to be taken in the event of fire, including fires involving oil systems*
* {% table 21.html#OICNW-C8.2, OICNW-C8.2 %} *Knowledge of fire prevention and ability to fight and extinguish fires*
* {% table 5111.html#TOPS-X4.1, TOPS-X4.1 %} *Tanker fire response organization and action to be taken*
* {% table 5111.html#TOPS-X4.2, TOPS-X4.2 %} *Fire hazards associated with cargo handling and transportation of hazardous and noxious liquids in bulk*
* {% table 5111.html#TOPS-X4.3, TOPS-X4.3 %} *Fire-fighting agents used to extinguish oil and chemical fires*
* {% table 5111.html#TOPS-X4.4, TOPS-X4.4 %} *Fixed fire-fighting foam system operations*
* {% table 5111.html#TOPS-X4.5, TOPS-X4.5 %} *Portable fire-fighting foam operations*
* {% table 5111.html#TOPS-X4.6, TOPS-X4.6 %} *Fixed dry chemical system operations*
* {% table 5111.html#TOPS-X4.7, TOPS-X4.7 %} *Spill containment in relation to fire-fighting operations*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X1.01, AFF-X1.01 %} *Fire-fighting procedures at sea and in port, with particular emphasis on organization, tactics and command*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X1.02, AFF-X1.02 %} *Use of water for fire-extinguishing, the effect on ship stability, precautions and corrective procedures*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X1.03, AFF-X1.03 %} *Communication and coordination during fire-fighting operations*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X1.04, AFF-X1.04 %} *Ventilation control, including smoke extraction*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X1.05, AFF-X1.05 %} *Control of fuel and electrical systems*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X1.09, AFF-X1.09 %} *Management and control of injured persons*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X3.2, AFF-X3.2 %} *Requirements for statutory and classification surveys*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X4.1, AFF-X4.1 %} *Assessment of cause of incidents involving fire*

**Demonstrate proficiency in the following skills:**

* {% assessment FF-8ERF %} *Extinguish an engine room fire*
* {% assessment FF-8FSR %} *Firefighting self rescue*
* {% assessment FF-8SAR %} *Search and Rescue*

### Topics

1.	Shipboard firefighting and tactical hazards
2.	Fire party organization and drills 
3.	Fighting fires involving hazardous materials. 
4.	Fire investigation
5.	Testing and servicing shipboard fire and alarm systems.



**Other objectives**


1*	Gains an advanced knowledge of tactical hazards and techniques.
*	Understands the basics of hazardous materials aboard ship.
*	Understands the importance of drills, training and pre-planning of fire attacks.
*	Understands the basics of shipboard fire investigation and reporting.
*	Demonstrates the ability to use advanced planning, communication, and tactical techniques to extinguish a fire in the engine room.
*	Demonstrates the ability to conduct search and rescue in an enclosed space.
*	Demonstrates the ability to work in a confined space, in black-out, while wearing an SCBA.

### For more information, see 

* {% imagelink FF0108-AMFF_Course_Outline.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink FF0108-AMFF_1_C_FF_Course_Framework.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink FF0108-AMFF_Skills_Evaluation.pdf %} 



