---
cnum: FF-0106
subtitle: "2/C Firefighting Practicum"
title: "MMA Course FF-0106"
major: D/E
---

### Course Description

Third component of training for Basic and Advanced Firefighting certification (Table A-VI-3). Instruction in fire protection systems, fire detection, main engine room fires and flammable liquids and gases. Practical training on site at the Barnstable training site. Prerequisite for Commercial Shipping.

This course consists of two hour lecture, and 8-hour practical.


### Learning Objectives

**Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following STCW elements:**

* {% table 63.html#AFF-X1.07, AFF-X1.07 %} *Fire fighting involving dangerous goods*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X1.08, AFF-X1.08 %} *Fire precautions and hazards associated with the storage and handling of materials (paints, etc.)*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X1.10, AFF-X1.10 %} *Procedures for coordination with shore-based fire fighters*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X2.1, AFF-X2.1 %} *Preparation of contingency plans for fire parties*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X2.2, AFF-X2.2 %} *Composition and allocation of personnel to fire parties*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X2.3, AFF-X2.3 %} *Strategies and tactics for control of fires in various parts of the ship*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X3.1, AFF-X3.1 %} *Fire-detection systems*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X3.1, AFF-X3.1 %} *fixed fire-extinguishing systems*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X3.1, AFF-X3.1 %} *portable and mobile fire-extinguishing equipment*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X3.1, AFF-X3.1 %} *appliances, pumps and rescue, salvage, life-support, personal protective and communication equipment*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X1.01, AFF-X1.01 %} *Fire-fighting procedures at sea and in port, with particular emphasis on organization, tactics and command*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X1.03, AFF-X1.03 %} *Communication and coordination during fire-fighting operations*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X1.04, AFF-X1.04 %} *Ventilation control, including smoke extraction*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X1.05, AFF-X1.05 %} *Control of fuel and electrical systems*
* {% table 63.html#AFF-X1.09, AFF-X1.09 %} *Management and control of injured persons*

**Demonstrate proficiency in the following skills:**

* {% assessment FF-6SRF %} *Extinguish a stateroom fire*
* {% assessment FF-6PLF %} *Extinguish a paint locker fire*

### Topics

1.	Shipboard fire suppression systems (CO2, Halon, Foam, and Sprinkler)
2.	Shipboard fire detection and alarm systems 
3.	Engine space fires.



**Other objectives**

*	Gains an advanced knowledge of fire behavior.
*	Learns about the components, proper use, and hazards associated with fixed firefighting systems aboard vessels.
*	Reviews the basic firefighting equipment available onboard the TS Kennedy.
*	Understands purpose and principles of ventilation.
*	Learns the principles in attacking fires in interior spaces.
*	Demonstrates ability to command a fire team to extinguish an interior Class A fire using standard hose techniques and proper ventilation.
*	Demonstrates ability to extinguish a Class B fire using fixed extinguishing systems.
*	Demonstrates ability to communicate and coordinate with shore-side emergency and firefighting personnel.


### For more information, see 

* {% imagelink FF0106-AMFF_2_C_FF_Course_Framework.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink FF0106-AMFF_Skills_Evaluation.pdf %} 



