---
cnum: MT-3222
subtitle: "Automatic Radar Plotting Aids (ARPA)"
title: "MMA Course MT-3222"
major: D
status: removed
---

### Course Description

This course is designed to meet all ARPA knowledge-based assessments and the fourteen performance-based assessments, which form part of the requirements for Officer in Charge of a Navigation Watch (STCW Table A-II/1). Students who successfully complete the course will be able to choose an appropriate mode of display, select plotting graphics controls suitable to the circumstances, make appropriate use of operational alarms, acquire and track those targets which present a potential threat of collision, extract the information needed on course, speed, and closest point of approach to enable early action and prevent a close-quarters situation, and use ARPA to confirm and monitor their actions. Students will be aware of the dangers of over reliance on automatic acquisition and tracking of targets and on operational alarms. They will also be aware of factors (including errors in course and speed inputs) which may affect accuracy and the correct functioning of the ARPA. This course satisfies the requirements for a USCG ARPA endorsement.  Class is held weekly in the Integrated Navigation Lab (INL) simulator with students working individually at each student station.  Classwork is supplemented by practical weekly labs in the Integrated Navigation Lab (INL) simulator with students working individually at each station. [Lab time required]


This course consists of one 1-hour lecture and one 2-hour lab per week for a semester with practrical assessments and a comprehensive final examination.

### Entrance requirements

Successful completion of  {% course MT-3122 %} *Radar Observer Certification*.

This course is a pre-requisite for {% course MT-3224 %} *Electronic Chart Display & Information Systems (ECDIS)*  and is a co-requisite for {% course MT-3231 %} *Applied Shiphandling*.


### STCW Objectives



### Topics

* Course Introduction
* Review of RADAR plotting techniques 
* Principle ARPA systems
* Target acquisition
* Tracking Operators 
* Capabilities and limitations 
* Setting up and maintaining displays
* Processing delays, representation of Operators 
* Target information, alarms and warnings 
* Trial maneuver, obtaining 
* Speed input & Determining Set and drift.
* System Operational Tests & Operators 
* Risk of over reliance on ARPA 
* Obtaining information from ARPA 
* Navigation Lines
* Navigation techniques
* Errors of interpretation
* RADAR/ARPA assisted casualties Case Studies 

**Other Objectives**

* Selection of an appropriate mode of display
* Selection of plotting graphics controls suitable to the circumstances
* Making appropriate use of operational alarms
* Acquiring and tracking those targets which present a potential threat of collision
* Extraction of the information needed on course, speed and nearest approach to enable early action to be taken to avoid a close quarters situation
* Making use of ARPA to confirm and monitor their actions.


### For more information, see 

* {% imagelink MT-3222-S22-syllabus-Llewellyn-ARPA.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink MT-3222-F22-syllabus-Chicoine-ARPA_policy_sheet.pdf %} 



