---
cnum: MT-4132
title: "Advanced Seamanship"
subtitle: "MMA Course MT-4132"
major: D
---

### Course Description

Operating a vessel safely and efficiently under all weather conditions requires a skill set for operating and maintaining a vessel and a knowledge of a vessel’s fittings and equipment. Under the supervision of experienced master mariners, students in this program develop seamanship skills through hands-on experience and learn critical thinking and problem-solving skills through the use of case studies of marine casualty investigations. This capstone course provides the new deck officer with a strong foundation in the fundamentals of traditional seamanship and exposes the individual to best practices in the ever-evolving shipboard technologies and operations necessary to compete in the global marine industry. Topics include search and rescue, damage control, marine salvage, tug and towing fundamentals, ice navigation, anchoring/mooring, ship/helicopter operations, and advanced ship handling techniques. An intensive, hands-on seamanship lab program complements the classroom experience. [Lab time required]

This course consists of three 1-hour lectures and one 2-hour lab per week for a semester with a comprehensive final examination.


### Learning Objectives

**Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following STCW elements:**

* {% table 21.html#OICNW-A5.2, OICNW-A5.2 %} *Initial action to be taken following a collision or a grounding*
* {% table 21.html#OICNW-A5.2, OICNW-A5.2 %} *Initial damage assessment and control*
* {% table 21.html#OICNW-A5.3, OICNW-A5.3 %} *Appreciation of the procedures to be followed for rescuing persons from the sea*
* {% table 21.html#OICNW-A6.1, OICNW-A6.1 %} *Knowledge of the contents of the International Aeronautical and Maritime Search and Rescue (IAMSAR) Manual*
* {% table 21.html#OICNW-A9.1, OICNW-A9.1 %} *the effects of deadweight, draught, trim, speed and under-keel clearance on turning circles and stopping distances*
* {% table 21.html#OICNW-A9.1, OICNW-A9.1 %} *the effects of wind and current on ship handling*
* {% table 21.html#OICNW-A9.1, OICNW-A9.1 %} *manoeuvres and procedures for the rescue of person overboard*
* {% table 21.html#OICNW-A9.1, OICNW-A9.1 %} *squat, shallow-water and similar effects*
* {% table 21.html#OICNW-A9.1, OICNW-A9.1 %} *proper procedures for anchoring and mooring*
* {% table 21.html#OICNW-A5.3, OICNW-A5.3 %} *Appreciation of the procedures to be followed for assisting a ship in distress*


### Topics

#### Lecture

* Ground Tackle
	* Anchor Design and Use S
	* Anchor Kinematics 
	* Chain Design 
	* Anchor Machinery & Associated fittings
* Anchoring and Mooring
	* Scope of Chain & Calculations
	* Holding Power
	* Anchoring Procedure and Safety Measures
	* Riding to Single Anchor
		* Radius of Swing 
		* Dredging of Anchor 
	* Mooring with Two Anchors
		* Open Moor, Running Moor, Standing Moor, Mediterranean Moor 
	* Mooring to Buoy
		* Single Offshore or Mooring Buoy, Two Buoy Mooring, Multiple Buoy Offshore Terminal
	* Anchor Watch
* Ship Maneuvering, Controllable Effects
	* Horsepower to Displacement Ratio
	* Propellers: Number, Type
	* Rudders: Forces and Resultant Forces on Rudder
	* Speed by Revolution Calculations
	* Maneuvering Devices: Thrusters and Auxiliary Propulsion Units
* Ship Maneuvering, Uncontrollable Effects
	* Hydrodynamic Forces & Interaction
		* Interaction Situations
		* Passing Ship Effects
		* Ship Squat & Calculations
		* Bank Effects
		* Current
		* Aerodynamic Interactions (Wind)
* Ship Maneuvering
	* Drift Angle
	* Pivot Point
	* Maneuvering Characteristics (speed, turning)
	* Requirements for & Limitations of Displayed Maneuvering Information
	* Man Overboard Techniques 
	* Deceleration & Stopping Maneuvers
	* Instruments to Assist in Judging Motion
* Docking & Undocking Procedures
	* Mooring Line Patterns
	* Characteristics of Mooring Line
		Material, Construction, Size & Elasticity
	* Attributes of Mooring Line
	* Bights & 3 Part Leads
	* Communications & Line Handling Commands
	* Deck Winch Machinery
	* Lead Angles
	* Safety & Operations while Docking / Undocking
	* Mooring Line Inspections
* Tugs & Towing
	* Tug Function & Design
	* Ship Assist Practice
	* Towing ñ Sheltered & Open Ocean
	* Emergency Towing
	* Tow Packages
	* Tug & Towing Safety Considerations
* Heavy Weather Maneuvering & Damage Control
	* Waves & Swells
	* Dangers of Heavy Seas & Swells
	* Heading & Speed Changes
	* Broaching & Speed Changes 
	* Synchronous Rolling
	* Loss of Power
	* Controlled Drifting
	* Fractures, Cracks & Holes
* Stranding & Salvage Operations
	* Actions Taken Immediately after Stranding 
	* Precautions Against Broaching, Pounding & Further Grounding
	* Methods of Re-floating 
	* Stranding calculations
* Ice Seamanship
	* Types of floating Ice 
	* Ice Identification
	* Risk of Ice Passage
	* Anchoring & Towing in Ice
	* Mooring in Ice
	* Ice Accretion & Vessel Stability
	* Freeing a Vessel Beset while Operating Independently
	* Freeing a Vessel Beset with Ice Breaker Escort
* Helicopter Operations
	* Vessel Responsibilities & Preparations
	* Personnel Safely & Dangers
	* Personnel Approaching a Helicopter
	* Helicopter Operating Conditions
	* Maneuvering your Vessel
	* Shipboard Hoisting & Landing
	* Pilot use of Helicopters
* Search & Rescue Operations
	* Source of SAR Information & AMVER
	* SAR Planning
	* On Scene Coordination
	* Search Patterns
	* Terminating the Search

#### Laboratory

* Motor Whale Boat Start-Up and Familiarization
* Monomoy Boat handling			
* Marlinspike Seamanship 1
* Splicing 8-Strand Mooring Line
* Manned Models Operation at Herring Pond
* Open Water Survival
* Motor Whale Boat Dock/Undock Practice
* MOB Recovery Drills & Uncontrollable Forces			
* Marlinspike Seamanship 2
* Motor Whale Boats 
* Towing Alongside			



**Other objectives**


The student will be able to:

* explain the function and limitations of each component of ground tackle.  
* describe the different types of moorings and explain the correct application of each mooring technique.  
* calculate optimal length of chain for the prevailing geographic and environmental conditions.  
* compute the maximum radius of swing.  
* explain the application of controllable forces in shiphandling including: propeller forces, rudder forces, thrusters, auxiliary propulsion units, lines, tugs and ground tackle.  
* contrast the advantages and disadvantages of different types of marine propulsion systems.  
* demonstrate fundamental shiphandling techniques through the operation of the academy’s small crafts and manned models.  
* compute propeller slip and speed by revolution.  
* discuss the effects of uncontrollable forces in shiphandling including: hydrodynamic interaction, current, and wind.   
* describe the effects of speed, drift angle and pivot point on the maneuvering characteristics of a vessel in both deep and shallow water.  
* calculate squat and the maximum transit speed to insure a minimum under keel clearance. 
* describe the different attributes of mooring lines based on their respective material, construction, size and length.  
* explain the application of different mooring patterns.  
* calculate mooring line stress.  Gaining hands on experience, 
* demonstrate the safe methods of handling mooring lines under heavy loads.  
* explain the advantages and disadvantages of different modes of towing. Through hands on operations, 
* demonstrate the advantages and disadvantages of maneuvering a tow made up alongside and maneuvering a tow pushed ahead.  
* list the actions to be taken immediately after grounding and explain the different methods to refloat a vessel.  
* execute basic stranding calculations critical to the early stages of a successful salvage. 
* explain the fundamentals of ice seamanship including: types of ice, risks of ice passage, and operating with and without icebreaker assistance.  
* identify the hazards inherent in marine helicopter operations and list controls to reduce the risk to personnel. 
* list the phases of a search and rescue operation from awareness to mission conclusion.  
* discuss the roll of a merchant ship in a coordinated SAR mission.  
* based on given parameters, identify the optimal type of search pattern to employ. 



