---
cnum: SR-0401
title: "4/C STCW Personal Safety/Social Responsibility"
subtitle: "MMA Course SR-0401"
major: D/E
---

### Course Description

Provides minimum standards of competence in personal safety and social responsibility. Instruction in emergency procedures on board ship, precautions to prevent pollution of the marine environment, observing safe working practices, understanding shipboard orders and contributing to effective human relationships on board ship. A component of Basic Safety Training certification.

This course consists of four 1-hour lectures.


### Learning Objectives

**Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following STCW elements:**

* {% table 614.html#PSSR-X5.3, PSSR-X5.3 %} *Social responsibilities*
* {% table 614.html#PSSR-X5.3, PSSR-X5.3 %} *employment conditions*
* {% table 614.html#PSSR-X5.3, PSSR-X5.3 %} *individual rights and obligations*
* {% table 614.html#PSSR-X5.3, PSSR-X5.3 %} *dangers of drug and alcohol abuse*
* {% table 31.html#OICEW-D8.4, OICEW-D8.4 %} *Knowledge of social responsibilities*
* {% table 21.html#OICNW-C8.4, OICNW-C8.4 %} *Knowledge of social responsibilities*


### Topics

#### Human Relations

*	The importance of maintaining good personal and working relationships aboard ships.
*	The causes and symptoms, as well as the physical effects, of stress.
*	The results of stress-related judgment errors in giving orders, standing watch, and in all duties of the mariner.
*	The deleterious effects of stress on human relationships aboard ship.
*	Stress management techniques.
*	Conflict management techniques.

#### Communication

*	The principles of good communication and potential barriers to effective communication.
*	Techniques for clearly and effectively communicating.

#### Alcohol, Drug, and Controlled Substance Awareness

*	Basic knowledge of the laws pertaining to alcohol use.
*	Hazards of habitual use of alcohol, drugs and other controlled substances to an individual, to the morale of a ship, and to the safety of shipmates.
*	Massachusetts Maritime Academy (MMA) policy on unauthorized possession or use of alcohol.
*	MMA policy on unauthorized possession or use of drugs and other controlled substances.  
*	Introduction to MMA’s random drug testing program.
*	Introduction to DOT/USCG rules and regulations on unauthorized use or possession of alcohol, drugs and other controlled substances.

#### Health and Hygiene

*	The importance of basic of personal hygiene aboard ship.
*	The danger to shipmates of transmitting disease as well as how to prevent transmission.
*	Discussion of AIDS and other STDs. 



### For more information, see 

* {% imagelink SR-0401-F18-PSSR-Syllabus.pdf %} 



