---
table: OICEW
taskNo: 16E3A
nvicNo: 16.3.A 
sortableNo: E-16-03-A
title: OICEW 16.3.A 
subtitle:  Take on bunkers
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  {% imagelink nvic-17-14.pdf, NVIC 17-14 Task 16.3.A %}, MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment ABE-1-6A %} *Assist with fuel oil transfer*
* Pass MMA Course {% course CC-LEAD %}  *Regimental Leadership Program*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Application of leadership and team working skills

</td><td markdown='1'>

{% table 31#OICEW-D7.3, OICEW-D7.3 %} Ability to apply task and workload management

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a vessel or on a simulator,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate plans for and assists in taking on bunkers.

<br>

<div class="tooltip" markdown='1'>

All

The assessment is required for all OICEW endorsements regardless of any limitations for propulsion mode and/or vessel equipment.

</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Meets with the Chief and Second Assistant Engineers to plan and schedule the order of events in anticipation of the shore- side bunker hose connection or bunker barge arrival;

2. Follows anti-pollution procedures (e.g., plug scuppers, provide vent drip buckets and absorbent medium, etc.);

3. Transfers oil internally (under supervision) if required;

4. Sound tanks and records levels that are planned to receive bunkers;

5. Helps identify and train subordinate personnel who will be assigned to help sound filling tanks and/or communicate with pumping personnel;

6. Supervises/assists in the connection of the bunker hose to the vessel taking particular note of type and condition of flange gasket(s);

7. Reads and discusses the Declaration of Inspection;

8. Checks hose connections for tightness and proper valve line- up;

9. Tests methods of communication with barge/shore side, deck and engine room, and sounding personnel;

10. Notifies both the mate and engineer on watch before commencing operations;

11. Starts process slowly; checking for leaks in hoses and connections;

12. Starts process slowly; checking for leaks in hoses and connections;

13. Takes required samples directly from barge tanks or sample valve on hose/flange;

14. Tests sample of incoming oil with respect to specific gravity, viscosity, sediment, water content, etc., if such testing equipment is on board;

15. Assists in monitoring progress, flow rates, sounding of tanks, topping off, and changing over tanks according to plan;

16. Periodically checks bilges for oil content if oil is flowing through piping in the engine room (filling double-bottom tanks);

17. Slows bunkering rate as last tank is being filled and secures operations as level approaches predetermined value;

18. Assists in securing from the evolution; and

19. Assists in making proper entries into Engine Log and Oil Record Books.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
