---
table: PS
taskNo: 1B12B
nvicNo: 1.12.B 
sortableNo: B-01-12-B
title: PS 1.12.B 
subtitle:  List actions to take aboard a survival craft at sea to enhance chances of survival
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  [NVIC 08-14  Task  1.12.B]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/nvic-08-14.pdf), MMA students must:

* Pass MMA Course {% course MT-1111 %}  *Vessel Familiarization and Basic Safety Training*
* Pass MMA Course {% course LB-0201 %}  *STCW Lifeboatman Qualifications*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Survive at sea in the event of a ship abandonment.

</td><td markdown='1'>

[PS-X1.5]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/611.html#PS-X1.5) Knowledge of principles concerning survival, including:

.7  actions to be taken when aboard a survival craft

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

When asked on a written examination to list actions to be take aboard a survival craft at sea to enhance chances of survival,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate lists (or select the answer that lists) the actions to be taken aboard a survival craft at sea to enhance chances of survival.

<br>

<div class="tooltip">
<span class="tooltiptext">
</span>
</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate lists (or selects the answer that lists) actions to be taken aboard a survival craft at sea to enhance chances of survival, such as: 

1. Establish chain of command; 
2. Assign tasks, such as: 

	a. lookout; 

	b. signaling/pyrotechnics; 

	c. radio operator; 

 	d. rationing and supplies;
 
 	e. craft maintenance; and
 
 	f. medical person.
 
3. Rig protective cover or close up raft; 
4. Check rations; 
5. Check survival equipment; 
6. Rig rain collection system; 
7. Check water lights; 
8. Utilize thermal protective aids; 
9. Keep craft in vicinity of vessel and EPIRB signal through use of sea-anchor; 
10. Check VHF radio; 
11. Activate EPIRB; 
12. Muster or marshal other survival craft; and 
13. Maintain discipline and morale.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
