---
table: RFPEW
taskNo: 1H1A
nvicNo: 1.1.A 
sortableNo: H-01-01-A
title:  NVIC 07-14 Task 1.1.A
subtitle:  Engine room round
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  {% nvic 07-14, {{page.title}}  %}, MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-4-1A %} *Inspect machinery spaces before assuming watch*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Carry out a watch routine appropriate to the duties of a rating forming part of an engine-room watch.

</td><td markdown='1'>

{% table 34#RFPEW-A1.2, RFPEW-A1.2 %} Engine-room watchkeeping procedures

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a vessel,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate makes an engine room round.

<br>

<div class="tooltip" markdown='1'>

All

The assessment applies to all RFPEW endorsements.

</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Inspects, monitors, and checks system parameters of all auxiliary systems and machinery, and main propulsion machinery, check operating pressures, temperatures, flow and level indicators, and collect readings for log book entry;
2. Inspects bilges and pump as necessary; notes piping condition in bilges and conducts visual inspection of sea chests;
3. Checks machinery spaces for all signs of fire, flooding, loss of lighting, and electric shock hazard;
4. Wipes up all spilled oil;
5. Inspects all system and machinery piping for signs of leaks;
6. Monitors all applicable strainer and filter pressure drops;
7. Checks electric motors and machinery for overheating;
8. Investigates any abnormal sounds, vibrations, or odors, as well as loose fittings, nuts, bolts, flanges, clamps, hangers, and connections;
9. Checks for any gear adrift or machinery guards not in place;
10. Notifies watch engineer of any unusual or unsafe conditions;
11. Takes appropriate action to correct any unusual or unsafe conditions;
12. Demonstrates proper keeping of the bell book; and
13. Takes proper action to prevent safety and pollution violations.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
