---
table: RFPEW
taskNo: 1H1C
nvicNo: 1.1.C 
sortableNo: H-01-01-C
title:  NVIC 07-14 Task 1.1.C 
subtitle:  Monitor LO/FO purification systems (RFPEW)
---





### NVIC Method

<a style="display:none;" onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >Show NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='show'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>

<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Carry out a watch routine appropriate to the duties of a rating forming part of an engine-room watch.

</td><td markdown='1'>

{% table 34#RFPEW-A1.2, RFPEW-A1.2 %} Engine-room watchkeeping procedures

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a vessel, on a simulator, or in a laboratory,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate monitors lube- oil (LO) and fuel-oil (FO) purification systems.

<br>

<div class="tooltip" markdown='1'>

All

The assessment applies to all RFPEW endorsements.

</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Checks plant’s operational status;
2. Checks the dirty-oil inlet temperature, as applicable;
3. Checks the dirty-oil inlet pressure;
4. Checks the clean-oil discharge pressure;
5. Checks the purifier-gear drive oil sump level, as applicable;
6. Checks level in sealing-water head tanks, as applicable;
7. Checks inlet and outlet sight glasses for flow;
8. Checks heater steam supply pressure, as applicable;
9. Feels machine for vibration;
10. Checks speed indicator for proper bowl speed;
11. For lube oil purification plants, determines the point of suction to include engine sump, settling/renovating tank, or other tank;
12. For lube oil purification plants, determines the point of discharge to include engine sump, settling/renovating tank, or other tank;
13. For fuel oil purification plants, determines the point of suction, including settling tank or other tank;
14. For fuel oil purification plants, determines the point of discharge to include day/service tank or other tank;
15. Checks priming- and wash-water pressure, as applicable;
16. Checks operating-water pressure, as applicable;
17. Checks control-air pressure, as applicable;
18. Checks for any unusual conditions or noises;
19. Notifies the watch engineer of unusual or unsafe conditions; and
20. Takes proper action to prevent safety and pollution violations.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  {% nvic 07-14, {{page.title}}  %}, MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-4-1D %} *Monitor engineering machinery*