---
table: RFPEW
taskNo: 1H1D
nvicNo: 1.1.D 
sortableNo: H-01-01-D
title:  NVIC 07-14 Task 1.1.D
subtitle:  Monitor compressed air plant
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  {% nvic 07-14, {{page.title}}  %}, MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-4-1D %} *Monitor engineering machinery*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Carry out a watch routine appropriate to the duties of a rating forming part of an engine-room watch.

</td><td markdown='1'>

{% table 34#RFPEW-A1.2, RFPEW-A1.2 %} Engine-room watchkeeping procedures

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a vessel, on a simulator, or in a laboratory,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate monitors the compressed air plant.

<br>

<div class="tooltip" markdown='1'>

All

The assessment applies to all RFPEW endorsements.

</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Checks plant’s operational status;
2. Checks applicable start, service, and control air compressor oil levels and adds oil as necessary;
3. Checks applicable start, service, and control air compressor oil pressures;
4. Checks applicable start, service, and control air-compressor suction pressure or air-inlet filter pressure differential indications as appropriate;
5. Checks applicable start, service, and control air-compressor discharge pressures and compressed-air receiver pressures;
6. Checks for any unusual conditions or noises;
7. Blows down intercoolers, after coolers, and receivers, checks associated refrigerated filter system and look for clogged cooling fins;
8. Notifies the watch engineer of any unusual or unsafe conditions;
9. Identifies emergency cross-connect between ship’s service air and control air systems;
10. Identifies valves to direct “air on deck”;
11. Identifies settings of standby equipment; and
12. Takes proper action to prevent safety and pollution violations.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
