---
table: RFPEW
taskNo: 1H1J
nvicNo: 1.1.J 
sortableNo: H-01-01-J
title:  NVIC 07-14 Task 1.1.J 
subtitle:  Monitor propulsion shafting and bearings (RFPEW)
---





### NVIC Method

<a style="display:none;" onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >Show NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='show'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>

<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Carry out a watch routine appropriate to the duties of a rating forming part of an engine-room watch.

</td><td markdown='1'>

{% table 34#RFPEW-A1.2, RFPEW-A1.2 %} Engine-room watchkeeping procedures

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a vessel at sea, on a simulator, or in a laboratory,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate monitors the propulsion shafting and bearings.

<br>

<div class="tooltip" markdown='1'>

All

The assessment applies to all RFPEW endorsements.

</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Checks all line shaft-bearing sump-oil levels;
2. Checks all line shaft-bearing-oil temperatures;
3. Checks all line shaft-bearing oiler rings, where appropriate;
4. Checks the independent thrust-bearing sump level, where appropriate;
5. Checks the independent thrust-bearing lube-oil sump temperature, where appropriate;
6. Checks the independent thrust-bearing lube-oil cooler inlet and outlet temperatures, where appropriate;
7. Checks the independent thrust-bearing lube-oil supply pressure, where appropriate;
8. Checks the independent thrust-bearing gravity- head tank level, where appropriate;
9. Checks the water-lubricated stern-tube stuffing box for proper leak-off, where appropriate;
10. Checks the oil-lubricated stern-tube lube sump tank level where appropriate;
11. Checks the oil-lubricated stern-tube lube-oil pressure where appropriate;
12. Checks the oil-lubricated stern-tube oil temperatures where appropriate;
13. Checks the oil-lubricated stern-tube inboard shaft seal for leakage if appropriate;
14. Notifies the watch engineer of any unusual or unsafe conditions; and
15. Takes proper action to prevent safety and pollution violations.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  {% nvic 07-14, {{page.title}}  %}, MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-4-1D %} *Monitor engineering machinery*