---
table: RFPEW
taskNo: 1H2C
nvicNo: 1.2.C 
sortableNo: H-01-02-C
title: RFPEW 1.2.C 
subtitle:  Shift and clean a basket-type duplex strainer
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  [NVIC 07-14  Task  1.2.C]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/nvic-07-14.pdf), MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment RFPEW-1H2C %} *Shift and clean a basket-type duplex strainer*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Carry out a watch routine appropriate to the duties of a rating forming part of an engine-room watch.

</td><td markdown='1'>

[RFPEW-A1.3]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/34.html#RFPEW-A1.3) Safe working practices as related to engine-room operations

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a vessel, or in a laboratory,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate shifts and cleans a basket-type duplex strainer.

<br>

<div class="tooltip">All
<span class="tooltiptext">
The assessment applies to all RFPEW endorsements.
</span>
</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Ascertains the need for cleaning a duplex strainer (but does not clean an in-service suction strainer);
2. Ensures that the change-over handle is loosened;
3. Ensures that the strainer being changed to is either pre-filled or is carefully filled by changing over without loss of pressure to protected machinery;
4. Ensures that the selector handle is positioned on the element not being cleaned, then tightened;
5. Loosens the idle strainer-lid fasteners or hold-down dogs as appropriate;
6. Ensures that the strainer house is depressurized and that the selector-plug valve is not leaking;
7. Removes fasteners or positions dogs clear out of the way;
8. Lifts up strainer lid and sets it aside;
9. Lifts up and removes the strainer basket;
10. Cleans the strainer basket;
11. Reinstalls the strainer basket;
12. Inspects mating surfaces of housing and lid, and scrapes, cleans, and replaces gasket as necessary;
13. Replaces and aligns the lid on top of the strainer housing;
14. Hand-tightens the bolts or firmly tighten hold-down dogs;
15. Wrench-tightens the bolts or firmly tighten hold- down dogs;
16. Checks the strainer housing for leaks;
17. Cracks the strainer element selector-handle towards the idle strainer housing to slowly admit sea water and pressurize housing;
18. Repositions the selector handle fully towards the strainer housing in service;
19. Notifies watch engineer of any unusual or unsafe conditions; and
20. Takes proper action to prevent safety and pollution violations.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
