---
table: OICNW
taskNo: 2D3A
nvicNo: 2.3.A 
sortableNo: D-02-03-A
title:  NVIC 12-14 Task 2.3.A
subtitle:  Voyage Planning - Appraisal
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  {% nvic 12-14, {{page.title}}  %}, MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICNW-2-3A %} *Voyage plan - appraisal*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Maintain a safe navigational watch

</td><td markdown='1'>

{% table 21#OICNW-A2.3, OICNW-A2.3 %} *Watchkeeping*

The use of routing in accordance with the General Provisions on Ships’ Routing

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a vessel, or in a navigation laboratory, when given a port of departure and a port of arrival that are between 600 nm and 1,000 nm apart,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate collects the information to plan a safe and environmentally sound voyage plan, taking into account paragraph 2 of the annex to IMO Assembly Resolution A893(21).

<br>

<div class="tooltip" markdown='1'>



</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate ensures that the following are taken into account when creating a voyage plan:

1. Condition of the vessel, its stability, equipment, operational limitations, draft, and maneuvering characteristics;

2. Any special characteristics of the cargo and its stowage;

3. Crewmembers’ competency and rest status;

4. Validity of all vessel certificates and documents;

5. Up-to-date charts of proper scale, and the latest notices to mariners and radio navigational warnings;

6. Up-to-date coast pilots, sailing directions, and other information sources appropriate for the voyage;

7. Relevant routing guides;

8. Up-to-date tide and current tables and atlases;

9. Weather information;

10. Weather routing services;

11. Ship reporting systems, VTS, and environmental protection measures;

12. Vessel traffic density for the route;

13. Pilotage requirements and information exchange; and

14. Port information, including emergency response capability.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
