---
table: OICNW
taskNo: 2D3C
nvicNo: 2.3.C 
sortableNo: D-02-03-C
title:  NVIC 12-14 Task 2.3.C
subtitle:  Execute a voyage plan
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  {% imagelink nvic-12-14.pdf, NVIC 12-14 Task 2.3.C %}, MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICNW-2-3B %} *Voyage plan - execution*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Maintain a safe navigational watch

</td><td markdown='1'>

{% table 21#OICNW-A2.3, OICNW-A2.3 %} *Watchkeeping*

The use of routing in accordance with the General Provisions on Ships’ Routing

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a vessel underway or on a simulator, when given a voyage plan,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate executes the plan, taking into account paragraph 4 and 5 of the annex to IMO Assembly Resolution A893(21).

<br>

<div class="tooltip" markdown='1'>



</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Checks the reliability and condition of navigational equipment frequently;

2. Applies basic information obtained from the tide tables and other navigational publications to determine under keel clearance;

3. Fixes position at appropriate intervals;

4. Frequently checks compasses;

5. Assesses meteorological information;

6. Determines compass error;

7. applies set and drift and other needed course corrections;

8. Correctly operates and applies information from electronic navigation systems;

9. Correctly operates the radar and ARPA, if fitted, and applies the information for navigation and collision avoidance;

10. Correctly operates propulsion and steering systems to control heading and speed;

11. Initiates action in the event of a real or simulated equipment malfunction or failure of major items of equipment;

12. Correctly conducts radio-communications;

13. Monitors and correctly operates safety and alarm systems; and

14. Closely and continuously monitors the voyage plan.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
