---
table: ABD
taskNo: 2J3A
nvicNo: 2.3.A 
sortableNo: J-02-03-A
title:  NVIC 14-14 Task 2.3.A
subtitle:  Describe berthing operations
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  {% nvic 14-14, {{page.title}}  %}, MMA students must:

* Pass MMA Course {% course MT-2231 %}  *Basic Seamanship*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Contribute to berthing, anchoring and other mooring operations

</td><td markdown='1'>

{% table 25#ABD-A2.1, ABD-A2.1 %} Working knowledge of the mooring system and related procedures, including the procedures and order of events for making fast and letting go mooring and tug lines and wires, including towing lines

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On board ship or in a laboratory, when questioned by a Qualified Assessor,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate describes the mooring system and related procedures and order of events for making fast and letting go the vessel’s lines at a specific port.

<br>

<div class="tooltip" markdown='1'>



</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate describes in proper order the procedures for berthing the vessel, including:

1. The call out of crewmembers who will be involved on deck;
2. Establishing the person in charge of mooring operations;
3. Pre-mooring conference;
4. Pulling lines and wires on deck to the chocks to be used;
5. Preparing stoppers, heaving lines, and messengers, if used;
6. Exchange of pilots and docking master;
7. Taking tug’s lines aboard (if applicable);
8. Passing lines and/or wires between the ship and the pier;
9. Positioning ship (warping);
10. Letting go of tugs;
11. Making fast;
12. Setting up the gangway;
13. Rigging pilots ladder, or ladder-gangway combination;
14. Bringing pilot safely on board;
15. Stowing pilot ladder or ladder-gangway 16. Pilots away; and 
17. Securing from berthing operations. 

**NOTE:** Particular attention should be paid to the use of safety equipment and precautions to minimize the risk of injury. 

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
