---
table: RFPEW
taskNo: 3H1I
nvicNo: 3.1.I 
sortableNo: H-03-01-I
title:  NVIC 07-14 Task 3.1.I 
subtitle:  Assist in the operation of the soot blower (RFPEW)
---





### NVIC Method

<a style="display:none;" onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >Show NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='show'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>

<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

For keeping a safe boiler watch: Maintain the correct water levels and steam pressures

</td><td markdown='1'>

{% table 34#RFPEW-A2.1, RFPEW-A2.1 %} Safe operation of boilers

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a steam vessel, on a simulator, or in a laboratory,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate assists in the operation of the soot blower system in the daily maintenance of the main- propulsion boiler.

<br>

<div class="tooltip" markdown='1'>

Note 1

Not performing this task will limit the candidate’s endorsement to motor and/or gas-turbine propelled vessels only.

This task is not required for steam propulsion and no limitation will be placed on the steam vessel endorsement if this task is not completed.

</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Ensures that permission has been requested from the bridge before blowing tubes;
2. Manually increases the de-aerating feedwater tank (DFT) level in preparation for using the steam soot blowers;
3. Verifies that the drain valve of the soot blower steam line is open;
4. Slowly opens the soot blower steam isolation valves;
5. Observes the output from the soot blower system drain, and secures the drain valve when it is determined that only steam is present;
6. Informs the OICEW when the system is ready;
7. Increases the speed of the forced-draft fan;
8. Physically pulls on any chain drive or manually rotates any crank to operate any non-air motor-driven soot blower in its proper sequence;
9. Assists in maintaining a watch on the main propulsion boiler water level, steam, pressure, and DFT water level;
10. At the end of cycling all soot blowers, secure the steam isolation valve to the soot blowers;
11. Opens the soot blower steam line drain; and
12. Wears proper safety equipment throughout the operation; and
13. Takes proper action to prevent safety and pollution violations.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  {% nvic 07-14, {{page.title}}  %}, MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-5-2C %} *Operate Main Boiler*