---
table: OICEW
taskNo: 4E1B
nvicNo: 4.1.B 
sortableNo: E-04-01-B
title: OICEW 4.1.B 
subtitle:  Light off boiler
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  {% imagelink nvic-17-14.pdf, NVIC 17-14 Task 4.1.B %}, MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-5-2A %} *Light off main boiler*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Operate main and auxiliary machinery and associated control systems

</td><td markdown='1'>

{% table 31#OICEW-A4.1, OICEW-A4.1 %} Basic construction and operation principles of machinery systems,

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a steam vessel of at least 1,000 HP, on a simulator, or in a laboratory,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate prepares and lights off a main propulsion boiler (assuming other boiler is in operation.).

<br>

<div class="tooltip" markdown='1'>

Note 1

A candidate who does not perform this task will receive an endorsement that is not valid for steam vessels.

</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Visually inspects the boiler to ensure that boiler firesides and watersides are properly closed up and that all manholes, hand holes, and access plates are properly secured;

2. Wipes up any oil accumulations in the furnace or air casing;

3. Checks closed bottom and surface blow valves; waterwall and economizer header drain valves; chemical feed and main and auxiliary feed stop check valves; main and auxiliary and soot blower steam stop valves, and the gauge glass drain valve;

4. Checks open the steam drum vent valve; superheater drain and vent valves; gauge glass cutoff valves; instrument and gauge root valves; and the feedwater stop valves;

5. Vents the economizer; close valve when water evident at vent;

6. Brings the boiler water level to 1 inch from the bottom of the gauge glass, filling or draining the boiler as necessary and makes sure to verify the ability to feed the boiler;

7. Blows down the boiler water level gauge glass to insure accuracy, leaving several inches of water in the glass;

8. Visually inspects the boiler and checks for water leaks;

9. Eases off on all steam stop valves and re-closes them hand tight;

10. Inspects and cleans all fuel oil strainers and ensures atomizers are made up with clean tips;

11. Ensures the air register doors operate freely;

12. Inserts a burner with small size tip into burner tube;

13. Starts forced draft fan, adjust damper, open register(s), and purges the furnace;

14. Ensures burner fuel oil root valves are closed; opens recirculating valve;

15. When fuel oil reaches proper temperature, reduces purging air volume and uses a torch or electric igniter to light burner;

16. Watches rise in steam drum water level and feeds as necessary;

17. When drum pressure reaches the recommended pressure, closes superheater drain and drum vent;

18. Continues slow fire and feeding until drum pressure is nearly line pressure;

19. Opens auxiliary steam stop to “float” the boiler online;

20. Closes superheater vent; puts feedwater and firing on “auto;”

21. Ensures that all operations are in accordance with manufacturer’s recommended procedures; and

22. Takes proper action to prevent safety and pollution violations.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
