---
table: OICEW
taskNo: 4E3L
nvicNo: 4.3.L 
sortableNo: E-04-03-L
title:  NVIC 17-14 Task 4.3.L
subtitle:  Bottom blow boiler
---





### NVIC Method

<a style="display:none;" onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >Show NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='show'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>

<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Operate main and auxiliary machinery and associated control systems

</td><td markdown='1'>

{% table 31#OICEW-A4.3, OICEW-A4.3 %} Preparation, operation, fault detection and necessary measures to prevent damage for the following machinery items and control systems 

Steam boiler and associated auxiliaries and steam systems

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a vessel of at least 1,000 HP, on a simulator, or in a laboratory, under the supervision of the Chief Engineer, and when directed,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate performs a bottom blow of a boiler.

<br>

<div class="tooltip" markdown='1'>

Note 1

A candidate who does not perform this task will receive an endorsement that is not valid for steam vessels.

</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Performs bottom blow when directed, slowing main engine to prevent carry-over or other adverse affects on steaming boiler;

2. Secures fires in boiler and opens superheater vent to boiler;

3. Secures main-steam stops to boiler to be given bottom blow;

4. Using auxiliary feed stop-check, raises level of water in steam drum of boiler to 1 inch from the top of gauge glass;

5. Opens bottom blow overboard skin valve;

6. Opens water wall bottom blow valve;

7. Observes drop in water level, securing bottom blow valve when level is no less than 1 inch from bottom of gauge glass;

8. Repeats steps 4 and 5;

9. Opens mud drum bottom blow valve and secures when gauge glass water level drops to no less than 1 inch from the bottom;

10. Prepares to re-light boiler;

11. Starts boiler forced draft fan and pre-purges furnace for 5 minutes;

12. Raises water level to 2 inches below normal level;

13. Re-lights burner  and adjusts combustion air as necessary;

14. Opens main steam stops to “float” boiler back on line, cracks open superheater and main steam line drains;

15. Begins to return main engine to sea speed when boiler pressures are observed to be equal and slight drop in burner manifold fuel oil pressure is noted;

16. Closes off superheater and main steam drains, and superheater vent;

17. Continues to slowly re-establish engine speed; and

18. Conducts round of engine room to verify that all steam systems and equipment are operating at normal levels.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  {% nvic 17-14, {{page.title}}  %}, MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-5-2C %} *Bottom blow boiler*