---
table: OICEW
taskNo: 4E3U
nvicNo: 4.3.U 
sortableNo: E-04-03-U
title:  NVIC 17-14 Task 4.3.U
subtitle:  Monitor refrigeration system
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  {% nvic 17-14, {{page.title}}  %}, MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-4-1D %} *Monitor engineering machinery*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Operate main and auxiliary machinery and associated control systems

</td><td markdown='1'>

{% table 31#OICEW-A4.3, OICEW-A4.3 %} Preparation, operation, fault detection and necessary measures to prevent damage for the following machinery items and control systems 

Other auxiliaries including refrigeration, air- conditioning and ventilation systems

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a vessel of at least 1,000 HP, on a simulator, or in a laboratory,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate monitors an air- conditioning or refrigeration system.

<br>

<div class="tooltip" markdown='1'>

All

The assessment is required for all OICEW endorsements regardless of any limitations for propulsion mode and/or vessel equipment.

</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Checks the compressor suction and discharge pressures and temperatures;

2. Checks compressor crankcase oil level;

3. Checks compressor oil pressure and control oil pressure if applicable;

4. Checks condition of crankcase and compressor noise;

5. Checks receiver level and liquid line sight glass condition;

6. Checks liquid line temperature;

7. Checks condition of suction accumulator if applicable;

8. Checks oil separator oil return sight glass condition if applicable;

9. Checks condensing cooling water pressure and inlet and outlet temperatures;

10. For chillers, checks chilled water pump suction and discharge pressures and chiller inlet and outlet temperatures, as well as the chilled water expansion tank level;

11. Checks refrigerated space temperatures as applicable;

12. Checks supply air, return air, and air conditioned space temperatures as applicable; and

13. Checks the compressor drive motor temperature.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
