---
table: ABD
taskNo: 5J7A
nvicNo: 5.7.A 
sortableNo: J-05-07-A
title:  NVIC 14-14 Task 5.7.A
subtitle:  Demonstrate electrical safety procedures
---





### NVIC Method

<a style="display:none;" onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >Show NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='show'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>

<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Apply occupational health and safety precautions

</td><td markdown='1'>

{% table 25#ABD-C2.1, ABD-C2.1 %} Working knowledge of safe working practices and personal shipboard safety, including electrical safety

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On board ship or in a laboratory,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate demonstrates electrical safety procedures.

<br>

<div class="tooltip" markdown='1'>



</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Observes all pertinent instructions and warning signs aboard ship;
2. Observes all safety precautions regarding portable electric lights and tools;
3. Does not touch or operate any device that has a tag attached;
4. Does not go behind electrical switchboards;
5. Does not touch bare electric wires or connections;
6. Assumes that all circuits are live;
7. Does not remove explosion proofing globes from lighting fixtures;
8. Does not use electric cable runs to hoist or support any weight;
9. Does not use the wire ways for storage;
10. Does not permit water to get into electrical equipment;
11. Is aware that electrolyte from a storage battery can cause severe burns and can damage equipment and clothing;
12. When working on electrical motors or other equipment, has an electrician disconnect the circuit and tag it as out of commission;
13. Does not start or operate electrical equipment when flammable vapors are present; and 
14. Reports any damaged electrical equipment or wiring to superior. 

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  {% nvic 14-14, {{page.title}}  %}, MMA students must:

* Pass MMA Course {% course EN-1112 %}  *Engineering Systems and Safety*