---
table: OICEW
taskNo: 8E3A
nvicNo: 8.3.A 
sortableNo: E-08-03-A
title:  NVIC 17-14 Task 8.3.A
subtitle:  Clean an oil purifier
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  {% imagelink nvic-17-14.pdf, NVIC 17-14 Task 8.3.A %}, MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-8E3A %} *Clean an oil purifier*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Appropriate use of hand tools, machine tools and measuring instruments for fabrication and repair on board

</td><td markdown='1'>

{% table 31#OICEW-C2, OICEW-C2 %} Application of Safe working practices in the workshop environment 

Safety measures to be taken to ensure a safe working environment and for using hand tools, machine tools and measuring instruments 

Use of hand tools, machine tools and measuring instruments.

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a vessel of at least 1,000 HP, or in a laboratory or workshop,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate opens, cleans, inspects, and closes a lube oil or fuel oil purifier.

<br>

<div class="tooltip" markdown='1'>

All

The assessment is required for all OICEW endorsements regardless of any limitations for propulsion mode and/or vessel equipment.

</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Performs a lockout/tagout procedure and informs the engine crew;

2. Closes and secures all liquid inlet and outlet valves;

3. Releases clamp from atop oil input/supply tube;

4. Raises and withdraws input/supply tube to fully extracted position;

5. Releases both frame clamps;

6. Lifts up front end of bowl hood and pivots back to locked position;

7. Carefully and slowly screws in locking bolt while rotating bowl slowly to line up and locate recess provided;

8. Repeats for second locking bolt;

9. Locates and removes bowl cover ring wrench from tool board;

10. Places bowl ring wrench level on bowl ring and gently drives wrench in clock-wise direction to loosen and un-screw ring;

11. Lifts bowl ring and gently sets aside on soft surface;

12. Locates and removes bowl cover-lifting tool from tool board;

13. Places bowl cover-lifting tool around ring dam locking ring, lifts cover and places along-side bowl ring;

14. Removes top disk and gently sets in cleaning fluid (diesel-oil).

15. Firmly grasps distribution tube/disk stack, gently rocking and lifting to dislodge from bowl bottom;

16. Removes distribution tube/disk stack and places on wood stand placed in bottom of cleaning solution receptacle;

17. Removes accumulated sludge from top disk surfaces and wipes down to remove all traces of cleaning solution;

18. Either singularly or as a stack lifts all disks from distribution tube and inverts in cleaning solution;

19. Wipes out bowl with lint-free rag;

20. Cleans sludge deposits from distribution tube and wipes cleaning solution residue from all surfaces;

21. Firmly replaces distribution tube in center of bowl bottom and locks onto locating pin;

22. Uses stiff-bristled brush to remove accumulated sludge from each disk, beginning with “bottom” disk, then wiping off disk surfaces to remove cleaning solution;

23. Places “bottom disk” over distribution tube;

24. Consecutively cleans and places each numbered intermediate disk until all disks have been cleaned and installed;

25. With all intermediate disks in place, positions cleaned top disk onto disk stack;

26. Checks bowl cover gasket for resilience, chipping, or fraying replacing as necessary;

27. Wipes off underside of bowl cover; 

28. Places bowl cover in place noting to line up tang on cover to bowl notch;

29. Sets bowl ring in place and rotates counterclockwise by hand until tight;

30. Uses bowl ring wrench to drive bowl ring around until tight (make sure mark on top of bowl ring surface lines up within 1/8-inch of corresponding mark on bowl cover);

31. Unscrews side-jacking bolts until bowl can be rotated freely by hand, and without binding;

32. Releases bowl frame cover and gently lowers into place;

33. Pushes supply tube/arm down and into position, securing with clamp;

34. Secures opposite cover clamp; and returns all tools to centrifuge tool board, stows brushes,  rags, and cleaning solutions; and

35. Takes proper action to prevent safety and pollution violations.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
