---
title: Start fresh water distiller
subtitle: OICEW Task 4.3.P 
task_number: 4.3.P
location: "* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-5-1F %} *Start fresh water generator *" 
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  [NVIC 17-14  Task  4.3.P]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/nvic-17-14.pdf), MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-5-1F %} *Start fresh water generator *


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Operate main and auxiliary machinery and associated control systems

</td><td markdown='1'>

[OICEW-A4.3]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-A4.3) Preparation, operation, fault detection and necessary measures to prevent damage for the following machinery items and control systems 

Auxiliary prime movers and associated systems

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a steam vessel of at least 1,000 HP, on a simulator, or in a laboratory,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate plans for and starts up the freshwater distiller, describing actions as they are being performed.

<br>

<div class="tooltip">Note 2
<span class="tooltiptext">
A candidate who does not perform this task will receive an endorsement that is limited to motor and/or gas-turbine propelled vessels without distilling plants.
</span>
</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Opens the brine pump overboard discharge valve;

2. Verifies that the brine pump overboard skin valve is open;

3. Verifies that the sea suction valve to the distiller saltwater feed pump is open;

4. Opens the saltwater feed pump suction and discharge valves;

5. Starts the saltwater feed pump to freshwater distilling unit;

6. Starts the brine overboard pump;

7. Adjusts the brine overboard discharge valve to maintain brine level to just cover the slosh plates in bottom of the flash chambers;

8. Opens the steam root valve to the distiller unit steam air ejectors;

9. Opens the steam supply valve to the saltwater feed heater (not if the saltwater feed water heater shell vacuum is less than 75% of normal operational vacuum);

10. Lines up and opens the L.P. bleed steam to saltwater feed water heater (or applies and regulates de-superheater condensate flow if live steam supply provided to salt water heater);

11. Lines up and regulates saltwater feed heater L.P. drain to maintain half of a gauge glass in saltwater feed heater hot well;

12. Adjusts the saltwater flow from the saltwater feed heater to maintain proper temperature of feed water to first stage;

13. Observes spray pattern of the feed water and level of water at bottom of the flash chamber;

14. Energizes the salinity indicating panel and verifies the three- way dump valve is tripped and will discharge to the bilge;

15. Monitors each salinity in the distillate path for indications of abnormal conditions;

16. Starts the distillate pump when the static suction line gauge glass is at least half-full;

17. Adjusts as necessary the saltwater feed temperature, brine overboard flow rate, and monitors the distillate pump output salinity level;

18. Verifies the tank to be replenished is lined up;

19. Engages the three-way dump valve when the distillate salinity level is indicated to be at or below alarm level;

20. Verifies the salinity meter reading by chemical test comparison of the distillate sample;

21. Records the water meter reading once discharge to the tanks has been established; and

22. Takes proper action to prevent safety and pollution violations.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
