---
title: Monitor steam turbine operation
subtitle: OICEW Task 4.3.D 
task_number: 4.3.D
location: "* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-5-1M %} *Monitor main steam turbine operation*" 
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  [NVIC 17-14  Task  4.3.D]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/nvic-17-14.pdf), MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-5-1M %} *Monitor main steam turbine operation*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Operate main and auxiliary machinery and associated control systems

</td><td markdown='1'>

[OICEW-A4.3]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-A4.3) Preparation, operation, fault detection and necessary measures to prevent damage for the following machinery items and control system 

Main engine and associated auxiliaries

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a steam vessel of at least 1,000 HP, on a simulator, or in a laboratory,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate plans for and monitors an operating main steam turbine engine, describing actions as they are being performed.

<br>

<div class="tooltip">Note 1
<span class="tooltiptext">
A candidate who does not perform this task will receive an endorsement that is not valid for steam vessels.
</span>
</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Checks all main-engine and reduction-gear bearing thermometers to detect signs of overheating;

2. Checks oil sight-flow indicators for proper oil flow

3. Checks the clearance indicators for proper rotor position;

4. Checks all thermometers, pressure gauges, and vacuum gauges

5. For readings within operating ranges;

6. Checks the oil level in the main sump;

7. Maintains the proper water level in the de-aerating feed tank;

8. Constantly monitors the salinity indicators;

9. Checks the lube-oil temperature from the lube-oil cooler, and

10. Maintains at proper temperature;

11. Checks the pressure of the cooling-water main;

12. Properly responds to and logs all speed change orders;

13. Is constantly alert for unusual sounds and/or vibrations;

14. Correctly describes actions as they are performed; and

15. Takes proper action to prevent safety and pollution violations.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
