---
title: Monitor oily-water separator
subtitle: OICEW Task 5.3.A 
task_number: 5.3.A
location: "* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-9-1C %} *Monitor oily water separator system*
* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-4-1D %} *Monitor engineering machinery*" 
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  [NVIC 17-14  Task  5.3.A]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/nvic-17-14.pdf), MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-9-1C %} *Monitor oily water separator system*
* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-4-1D %} *Monitor engineering machinery*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Operate fuel, lubrication, ballast and other pumping systems and associated control systems.

</td><td markdown='1'>

[OICEW-A5.3](../../tables/31.html#OICEW-A5.3) Oily-water separators (or similar equipment) requirements and operation

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a vessel of at least 1,000 HP, on a simulator, or in a laboratory,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate monitors the oily- water separator system.

<br>

<div class="tooltip">All
<span class="tooltiptext">
The assessment is required for all OICEW endorsements regardless of any limitations for propulsion mode and/or vessel equipment.
</span>
</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Checks plant’s operational status;

2. Checks bilge-water tank level;

3. Checks oily-water-separator chamber pressure or vacuum;

4. Checks filling related pressure/vacuum;

5. Checks overboard-discharge water-pump pressure;

6. Monitors oil-content monitor and ensures that:

7. Equipment is not bypassed, sampling line is open, and flushing water is not being supplied to sensor;

8. Automatic valves are not operated in manual mode or disconnected from controlling  devices; and

9. No temporary hoses are used during operation and when possible, checks cleanliness of sensors;

10. Checks for any unusual conditions or noises;

11. Notifies watch engineer of any unusual or unsafe conditions; and

12. Takes proper action to prevent safety and pollution violations.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
