---
title: Monitor main gas turbine propulsion unit
subtitle: RFPEW Task 1.1.I(G) 
task_number: 1.1.I(G)
location: "* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-4-3E %} *Monitor main gas turbine operation*" 
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  [NVIC 07-14  Task  1.1.I(G)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/nvic-07-14.pdf), MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-4-3E %} *Monitor main gas turbine operation*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Carry out a watch routine appropriate to the duties of a rating forming part of an engine-room watch.

</td><td markdown='1'>

[RFPEW-A1.2](../../tables/34.html#RFPEW-A1.2) Engine-room watchkeeping procedures

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a gas turbine vessel at sea, on a simulator, or in a laboratory,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate monitors a main gas- turbine engine propulsion unit.

<br>

<div class="tooltip">Note 4
<span class="tooltiptext">
Not performing this task will limit the candidate’s endorsement to motor vessels and/or steam vessels.

</span>
</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Monitors the main lube-oil and cooling water temperatures entering and leaving the main lube-oil cooler;
2. Monitors the main lube-oil sump tank level
3. Monitors the main and scavenging lubricating oil pump suction and discharge pressures, the lube-oil supply and scavenging header pressures and temperatures and any applicable filter or strainer pressure drops;
4. Monitors fuel oil manifold pressure and temperature, and any applicable strainer and filter pressure drops;
5. Monitors start air pressure;
6. Monitors compressor inlet and discharge pressures and temperatures;
7. Monitors power turbine gas inlet and outlet pressure and temperature;
8. Monitors gas generator and power turbine speed;
9. Checks gas turbine vibration indicator;
10. Monitors gas turbine enclosure cooling air outlet temperature;
11. Monitors reduction gear lube oil sump levels, lube oil temperatures and pressures, and lube oil filter and strainer pressure drops as applicable;
12. Monitors controllable pitch propeller oil sump levels, pitch oil temperatures and pressures, and pitch oil filter and strainer pressure drops as applicable; and
13. Notifies the watch engineer of any unusual or unsafe conditions, unusual sounds, or vibrations; and
14. Takes proper action to prevent safety and pollution violations.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
