---
title: Monitor auxiliary boiler
subtitle: OICEW Task 4.3.I 
task_number: 4.3.I
location: "* Successfully complete MMA Assessment [OICEW-4E3I]({{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Engine/OICEW-4E3I) *Monitor and operate auxiliary boiler*" 
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  [NVIC 17-14  Task  4.3.I]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/nvic-17-14.pdf), MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment [OICEW-4E3I]({{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Engine/OICEW-4E3I) *Monitor and operate auxiliary boiler*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Operate main and auxiliary machinery and associated control systems

</td><td markdown='1'>

[OICEW-A4.3](../../tables/31.html#OICEW-A4.3) Preparation, operation, fault detection and necessary measures to prevent damage for the following machinery  items and control systems 

Steam boiler and associated auxiliaries and steam systems

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a vessel of at least 1,000 HP, on a simulator, or in a laboratory,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate monitors the oil-fired or waste heat auxiliary boiler.

<br>

<div class="tooltip">Note 3
<span class="tooltiptext">
A candidate who does not perform this task will receive an endorsement that is limited to motor and/or gas-turbine propelled vessels without waste-heat or auxiliary boilers.
</span>
</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate performs either (A) or (B): 

(A) OIL-FIRED AUXILIARY BOILER

1. Monitors the steam drum pressure and water level;

2. Monitors the feed water pressure;

3. Monitors the fuel oil service pump suction and discharge pressures and fuel-oil supply pressure and temperature to the supply header and applicable fuel oil strainer pressure drops;

4. Monitors the fuel oil settling/service tank levels and temperatures;

5. Strips fuel oil settling tanks of moisture as appropriate;

6. Monitors the stack temperature;

7. Monitors the atomizing steam pressure as applicable;

8. Observes condition of flame through peephole;

9. Visually inspects boiler casing, hand holes, manholes, and piping for leaks;

10. Promptly wipes up any oil accumulations presenting a fire hazard

11. Notifies the watch engineer of any unusual or unsafe conditions, unusual sounds, or vibrations; and

12. Takes proper action to prevent safety and pollution violations. NOTE:  Recorded readings from analog gauges should be ± 5% of actual, except boiler water level should be ±1” of actual. 

The candidate performs either (A) or (B): 

(B) WASTE HEAT AUXILIARY BOILER

1. Monitors the steam drum pressure and water level;

2. Monitors the feed water pressure;

3. Monitors the feed pump suction and discharge pressures;

4. Monitors the feed tank level and temperature;

5. Monitors the boiler water circulating pump suction and discharge pressures, as applicable;

6. Monitors the exhaust gas inlet temperature

7. Monitors the stack temperature;

8. Visually inspects boiler casing, hand holes, manholes, and piping for leaks;

9. Notifies the watch engineer of any unusual or unsafe conditions, unusual sounds, or vibrations; and

10. Takes proper action to prevent safety and pollution violations. NOTE:  Recorded readings from analog gauges should be ± 5% of actual, except boiler water level should be ±1” of actual.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
