---
title: EN-3233
---

## Steam and Gas Turbines 

### Course Description

Covers the principles, design, operation, maintenance, and repair of marine steam turbines including their reduction gears, thrust bearings, couplings, governors, and lubrication systems. Line shafting, bearings, and propellers are other topics included. This course also includes an introduction to the design and operation of gas turbines. [Lab time required]

This course consists of three 1-hour classes a week for a semester, six 3-hour labs  with practical assessments, and a comprehensive final exam.

### Entrance requirements

* Locate and identify all components relating to the training ship's main propulsion plant
* Understand and utilize Mollier chart and steam tables
* Thoroughly understand the operation of the training ship's boilers


### Learning Objectives

**Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following STCW elements:**

* [OICEW-A4.1](31#OICEW-A4\.1) Basic construction and operation principles of marine steam turbines
* [OICEW-A4.1](31#OICEW-A4\.1) Basic construction and operation principles of marine gas turbines
* [OICEW-A4.1](31#OICEW-A4\.1) Basic construction and operation principles of shafting installations, including propellers
* [OICEW-A4.1](31#OICEW-A4\.1) Basic construction and operation principles of purifiers

**Demonstrate proficiency in the following skills:**

* [OICEW‑5‑1H](OICEW-5-1H) Start fuel oil or lube oil purifier
* [OICEW‑5‑1I](OICEW-5-1I) Shut down fuel oil or lube oil purifier
* [OICEW‑7‑1C](OICEW-7-1C) Pre-start inspection of steam turbo-generator
* [OICEW‑7‑1D](OICEW-7-1D) Connect ship service diesel generator to main switchboard
* [OICEW‑4‑3B](OICEW-4-3B) Prepare and start main gas turbine
* [OICEW‑4‑3E](OICEW-4-3E) Monitor main gas turbine operation
* [OICEW‑4‑3H](OICEW-4-3H) Secure main gas turbine
* [OICEW‑1E2A](OICEW-1E2A) Change over control systems <%= imageref("new") %>

### Topics

1. Introduction: Thermodynamics
2. Turbine classification
3. Turbine staging
4. Turbine construction: Blading, rotors
5. Turbine construction: Diaphragms, casings
6. Couplings
7. Reduction gears
8. Bearings: Journal and thrust
9. Turbine balancing
10. Lube oil theory and purification
11. Lube oil systems
12. Speed control: Throttles, governors
13. Turbine operation, start up, securing
14. Casualty control
15. Maintenance and repair
16. Gas turbine construction
17. Gas turbine operation



**Other objectives**

* Prepare the main propulsion turbines aboard the T.S. Kennedy for start up
* Explain the design, construction and operation of steam and gas turbines


### For more information, see 

* <%= imagelink("EN-3233-McClellan-S16.pdf") %> 
* <%= imagelink("EN-3233-McDonnell-S16.pdf") %> 
* <%= imagelink("EN-3233-Trudeau-S16.pdf") %> 



