---
subtitle: Course EN-3212
title: "Electronics"
---

### Course Description

Theory of basic solid-state electronic devices. Power circuits. Use of analog and digital integrated circuits in control systems for logic, interlocks, and automated machinery control. 

This course consists of three 1-hour classes a week for a semester, twelve 2-hour labs  with practical assessments, and a comprehensive final exam.

### Entrance requirements

* Form and solve linear equations quickly and accurately using Algebra
* Analyze series and parallel circuits using Ohm's law and Kirchhoff's laws
* Identify and understand transient behavior in capacitive and inductive circuits
* Solve basic differential equations for time-variant electronic components
* Analyze AC circuits using the concepts of impedance and phasors


### Learning Objectives

**Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following STCW elements:**

* [OICEW-B1.2](31#OICEW-B1\.2) Configuration and operation principles of electronic equipment
* [OICEW-B1.2](31#OICEW-B1\.2) Characteristics of basic electronic circuit elements
* [OICEW-B2.6](31#OICEW-B2\.6) The interpretation of electrical and simple electronic diagrams


### Topics

1. Introduction to CAPS Systems and Electronic Control
2. Analog and Digital Signals, and Electronic Systems
3. Sensors, Units, Measurement, Error, Accuracy & Uncertainty
4. Resistance, Capacitance, Inductance; Filtering & Impedance
5. Analog Circuits and Signal Processing
6. Voltage Dividers and the Wheatstone Bridge
7. Transistors and Solid-State Integrated Circuits
8. Operational Amplifiers and Instrumentation Applications
9. Digital Circuits and Signal Processing
10. Boolean Algebra, Logic Gates, and TTL Voltage I/O
11. Microprocessor Busses and One-Bit A/D Comparators
12. Digital to Analog Converters (DACs)
13. Analog to Digital Converters (ADCs)
14. Ladder Logic Systems and Relay-Switching Controllers
15. Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs); Application & Programming
16. PLC Design-Application Case Study



**Other objectives**


* Understand the use of component blocks and signals in CAPS systems
* Define and analyze primary circuits for analog signal conditioning
* Define and analyze primary circuits for digital signal conditioning
* Read analog and digital circuit diagrams, and identify basic electronic components
* Understand the use of solid-state transistors for amplification and switching applications
* Define and analyze Op-Amp circuits for voltage gain instrumentation
* Convert binary numbers to other number systems, and vice versa
* Read logic gate schematics, and ladder logic diagrams
* Design and program ladder logic PLCs for discrete-state applications


### For more information, see 

* <%= imagelink("EN-3212-Torino-S16.pdf") %> 
* <%= imagelink("EN-3212-DiMassa-S16.pdf") %> 
* <%= imagelink("EN-3212-Bausch-S16.pdf") %> 



