---
subtitle: Course EN-3111
title: "Electrical Machines"
---

### Course Description

Students study AC and DC theory as applied to motors, generators, and power distribution systems. The course also considers preventative maintenance and repair of rotating and static electrical equipment; turboelectric drive principles and operation; and U.S. Coast Guard electrical engineering rules and regulations. The lab component covers ship and shoreside machinery.

This course consists of three 1-hour classes a week for a semester and a comprehensive final exam.

### Entrance requirements

* Describe and use the fundamental concepts of dynamics as taught in Engine Physics II
* Solve simple circuits using Ohm's Law and Kirchoff's Law
* Describe Farriday's Law of Electromagnetic Induction


### Learning Objectives

**Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following STCW elements:**

* [OICEW-B1.1]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-B1.1) Basic configuration and operation principles of electrical generators
* [OICEW-B1.1]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-B1.1) Basic configuration and operation principles of electrical distribution systems
* [OICEW-B1.1]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-B1.1) Preparing, starting, paralleling and changing over generators
* [OICEW-B1.1]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-B1.1) Basic configuration and operation principles of electrical motorrs
* [OICEW-B1.1]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-B1.1) Electrical motor starting methodologies
* [OICEW-B1.1]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-B1.1) Basic configuration and operation principles of high-voltage installations
* [OICEW-B2.1]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-B2.1) Safety requirements for working on shipboard electrical systems
* [OICEW-B2.1]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-B2.1) Safe isolation of electrical equipment required before personnel are permitted to work on such equipment
* [OICEW-B2.2]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-B2.2) Maintenance and repair of electrical system equipment
* [OICEW-B2.2]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-B2.2) Maintenance and repair of electrical switchboards
* [OICEW-B2.2]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-B2.2) Maintenance and repair of electric motors and generators
* [OICEW-B2.2]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-B2.2) Maintenance and repair of DC electrical systems and equipment
* [OICEW-B2.3]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-B2.3) Detection of electric malfunctions
* [OICEW-B2.3]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-B2.3) Location of faults causing electrical malfunctions
* [OICEW-B2.3]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-B2.3) Measures to prevent damage caused by electrical malfunctions
* [OICEW-B2.4]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-B2.4) Construction of electrical testing and measuring equipment
* [OICEW-B2.4]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-B2.4) Operation of electrical testing and measuring equipment


### Topics

1. Current, Voltage, Resistance
2. DC Circuits and Circuit Faults
3. Magnetic Fields and Circuits
4. Basic Magnetic Circuit
5. Energy in a magnetic field
6. Capacitors
7. Current, Voltage, and Impedance
8. Resonance and Harmonics
9. Power Factor
10. Three Phase Systems
11. Transformers
12. Three Phase Induction Motors
13. Synchronous Motors
14. 3 Phase Motor Operation
15. AC Generators
16. Single Phase AC Motors
17. DC Generators
18. DC Motors
19. Battery Systems
20. Grounding



**Other objectives**


* Describe the principles of operation of electrical machinery typically found on ships
* Calculate circuit properties such as current, voltage, power, and power factor for single and three phase AC circuits
* Describe the conditions necessary to parallel AC Generators
* Describe why power factor correction is desirable, and how it is accomplished
* Describe the effects of resonance on electric circuits


### For more information, see 

* <%= imagelink("EN3111-Gillis-F15.pdf") %> 
* <%= imagelink("EN3111-McDonald-F15.pdf") %> 
* <%= imagelink("EN3111-Torino-F15.pdf") %> 
* <%= imagelink("EN-3111-Gillis-S16.pdf") %> 



