---
subtitle: Course MT-3224
title: "Electronic Chart Display & Information System (ECDIS)"
---

### Course Description

This course is designed to enhance navigational safety through the correct operation of ECDIS equipment by the officer in charge of a navigational watch. The integrated lecture/lab experience will allow each student to practice each required proficiency task on individual ECDIS/simulation stations as the topic is covered. Course content covers the theory of ECDIS, IMO regulations, and requirements and performance standards governing the use of ECDIS. This course meets the STCW requirements for ECDIS certification.

This course consists of one 1-hour lecture and one 2-hour lab per week for a semester with practrical assessments and a comprehensive final examination.


### Learning Objectives

**Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following STCW elements:**

* [OICNW-A4.1]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/21.html#OICNW-A4.1) *thorough understanding of Electronic Navigational Chart (ENC) data, data accuracy, presentation rules, display options and other chart data formats*
* [OICNW-A4.1]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/21.html#OICNW-A4.1) *the dangers of over-reliance*
* [OICNW-A4.1]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/21.html#OICNW-A4.1) *familiarity with the functions of ECDIS required by performance standards in force*
* [OICNW-A4.2]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/21.html#OICNW-A4.2) *use of functions that are integrated with other navigation systems in various installations, including proper functioning and adjustment to desired settings*
* [OICNW-A4.2]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/21.html#OICNW-A4.2) *safe monitoring and adjustment of information, including own position, sea area display, mode and orientation, chart data displayed, route monitoring, user-created information layers, contacts (when interfaced with AIS and/or radar tracking) and radar overlay functions (when interfaced)*
* [OICNW-A4.2]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/21.html#OICNW-A4.2) *confirmation of vessel position by alternative means*
* [OICNW-A4.2]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/21.html#OICNW-A4.2) *efficient use of settings to ensure conformance to operational procedures, including alarm parameters for anti-grounding, proximity to contacts and special areas, completeness of chart data and chart update status, and backup arrangements*
* [OICNW-A4.2]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/21.html#OICNW-A4.2) *adjustment of settings and values to suit the present conditions*
* [OICNW-A4.2]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/21.html#OICNW-A4.2) *situational awareness while using ECDIS including safe water and proximity of hazards, set and drift, chart data and scale selection, suitability of route, contact detection and management, and integrity of sensors*

**Demonstrate proficiency in the following skills:**

* [OICNW‑3‑3A]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3A) *Operational Settings - Safety Depth*
* [OICNW‑3‑3B]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3B) *Operational Settings - Display/Change Safety contour*
* [OICNW‑3‑3C]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3C) *Operational Settings - Display/change CPA/TCPA limits*
* [OICNW‑3‑3D]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3D) *Operational Settings - Display/Change spot sounding limits*
* [OICNW‑3‑3E]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3E) *Operational Settings - Resume of Navigation Mode*
* [OICNW‑3‑3F]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3F) *Monitoring Sea Area - Chart Scaling*
* [OICNW‑3‑3G]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3G) *Monitoring Sea Area - Chart selection*
* [OICNW‑3‑3H]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3H) *Monitoring Sea Area - Gain information*
* [OICNW‑3‑3I]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3I) *Monitoring Sea Area - ERBL*
* [OICNW‑3‑3J]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3J) *Display User Charts *
* [OICNW‑3‑3K]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3K) *Merge User Charts*
* [OICNW‑3‑3L]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3L) *Display Route Plans*
* [OICNW‑3‑3M]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3M) *Modify Waypoints*
* [OICNW‑3‑3N]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3N) *Check revised route for safety*
* [OICNW‑3‑3O]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3O) *Convert Route Plan to Passage Plan*
* [OICNW‑3‑3P]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3P) *Convert Route Plan to a Route*
* [OICNW‑3‑3Q]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3Q) *Environmental Data - Identify tidal data*
* [OICNW‑3‑3R]( {{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Deck/OICNW-3-3R) *Environmental Data - Display tide bars and current vectors*

### Topics

1. Introduction to ECDIS
2. Purpose of ECDIS
3. ECDIS value to navigation
4. Limitations of ECDIS: Correct and Incorrect use of ECDIS
5. ECDIS work station start up, stop and screen layout
6. Vessel position
7. Position source
8. Heading and drift vectors
9. Basic navigation
10. Understanding chart data
11. Chart quality and accuracy
12. Chart organization
13. Sensors
14. Ports and data feeds
15. Chart selection
16. Chart information
17. Changing the settings
18. Chart scaling
19. Information layers
20. System and position alarms
21. Depth and contour alarms
22. Vessel maneuvering characteristics
23. Route planning by table
24. Route planning by chart
25. Track limits
26. Checking voyage plan for safety
27. Embedded tide, current and climate almanac
28. Route schedule
29. User charts in route planning
30. ARPA tracked target overlay
31. AIS functions
32. Radar overlay (RIB) functions
33. Procuring and installing chart data
34. Installing chart corrections
35. System reset and backup
36. Archiving with ECDIS data management utility
37. Data logging and logbook
38. Playback
39. Responsibility
40. Effective navigation with ECDIS


**Other objectives**


At the completion of the course the student will be able to:

* Operate an ECDIS and use its functions for safe navigation
* Understand the difference between a raster and vector chart.
* Understand the capabilities and limitations of ECDIS.
* Perform the Basic Tasks listed in the Proficiency Checklist for the NaviSailor 4000i.
* Perform all tasks associated with overall presentation of the display.
* Perform the Intermediate Tasks in the Proficiency Checklist for the NaviSailor 4000i.
* Perform the Navigator Tasks listed in the Proficiency Checklist for the NaviSailor 4000i.



