---
subtitle: Course MT-4253
title: "Watchkeeping using Full-Mission Bridge Simulator"
---

### Course Description

A capstone assessment program allowing deck, undergraduate students an opportunity to demonstrate competency in Bridge Resource Management and Watchstanding for STCW and USCG licensing requirements. Students successfully completing these competencies are capable of undertaking all of the duties and responsibilities expected of a deck watchkeeping officer. Upon successful completion of this course, a U.S. Coast Guard approved certificate is issued certifying that the holder demonstrates appropriate competence in watchkeeping, bridge team management, and bridge resource management, meeting the standards prescribed by IMO/STCW and the U.S. Coast Guard.

This course consists of at least two 45-minute full mission ship simulator exercises with practical assessments, approximately eight hours of voyage planning, chart and publication correction, and a comprehensive exam.


### Learning Objectives


**Demonstrate proficiency in the following skills:**

* [OICNW‑1‑3A](OICNW-1-3A) Correction of charts and publications
* [OICNW‑2‑1D](OICNW-2-1D) Determine risk of collision
* [OICNW‑2‑1E](OICNW-2-1E) Maneuver to avoid risk of collision -- meeting
* [OICNW‑2‑1F](OICNW-2-1F) Maneuver to avoid risk of collision -- overtaking
* [OICNW‑2‑2B](OICNW-2-2B) Keep a safe navigation watch
* [OICNW‑2‑2C](OICNW-2-2C) Notify Master when appropriate
* [OICNW‑2‑2D](OICNW-2-2D) Keep a safe anchor watch <%= imageref("mod") %>
* [OICNW‑2‑2E](OICNW-2-2E) Navigate in restricted visibility
* [OICNW‑2‑2F](OICNW-2-2F) Turn over a watch
* [OICNW‑2‑3A](OICNW-2-3A) Voyage plan - appraisal
* [OICNW‑2‑3B](OICNW-2-3B) Voyage plan - execution
* [OICNW‑2‑3C](OICNW-2-3C) Watch augmentation
* [OICNW‑2‑3D](OICNW-2-3D) BRM Condition III – collision avoidance.
* [OICNW‑2‑3E](OICNW-2-3E) BRM Condition III – navigation
* [OICNW‑2‑3F](OICNW-2-3F) BRM Condition II or III – error trapping
* [OICNW‑2‑3G](OICNW-2-3G) BRM Condition II or III – navigation and collision avoidance
* [OICNW‑2‑3H](OICNW-2-3H) BRM Condition III – establish a bridge team
* [OICNW‑4‑1A](OICNW-4-1A) Flashing Light
* [OICNW‑2D1E](OICNW-2D1E) Maneuver to avoid risk of collision - crossing <%= imageref("new") %>
* [OICNW‑2D3B](OICNW-2D3B) Voyage plan - preparation <%= imageref("new") %>
* [OICNW‑2D4A](OICNW-2D4A) Situational awareness <%= imageref("new") %>
* [OICNW‑2D6A](OICNW-2D6A) Vessel traffic systems (VTS) <%= imageref("new") %>
* [OICNW‑2D7E](OICNW-2D7E) BRM Condition II or III - prioritization <%= imageref("new") %>
* [ADB‑4J11A](ADB-4J11A) Trace out and describe a piping system <%= imageref("new") %>
* [RFPNW‑1K](RFPNW-1K) Helmsman <%= imageref("new") %>
* [RFPNW‑3K4B](RFPNW-3K4B) Relief of the helmsman <%= imageref("new") %>
* [RFPNW‑2K](RFPNW-2K) Lookout <%= imageref("new") %>
* [RFPNW‑3K4A](RFPNW-3K4A) Relief of the lookout <%= imageref("new") %>

### Topics

* 1-3A Correction of Charts and Publications
* 2-3A Voyage Planning
* 2-2D Keeping a Safe Anchor Watch 
* Watch Condition I Simulation
	*  2-1D Determine Risk of Collision
	*  2-1E Maneuver in Meeting Situation
	*  2-1F Maneuver in Overtaking Situation
	*  2-2B Keep a Safe Navigation Watch
	*  2-2C Notify Master when Appropriate
	*  2-2E Navigate in Restricted Visibility
	*  2-2F Turn Over a Watch
	*  2-3B Execute a Voyage Plan
	*  2-3C Watch Augmentation
* Watch Condition III Simulation
	*  2-3D BRM Cond. III- Coll. Avoid.
	*  2-3E BRM Cond. III- Navigation
	*  2-3F BRM Cond. II/III- Error Trapping
	*  2-3G BRM Cond. II/III- Nav. /Coll. Avoid.
	*  2-3H BRM Cond. III- Establish a Bridge Team

All requirements must be completed by the end of [Sea Term IV: Marine Transportation](mt4371).

### For more information, see 

* <%= imagelink("MT-4253_Watchkeeping_Debrief.pdf") %> 



