---
title: Monitor steam distilling plant
subtitle: RFPEW Task 1.1.H(S) 
task_number: 1.1.H(S)
location: "* Successfully complete MMA Assessment [OICEW-4-1D]({{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Engine/OICEW-4-1D) *Monitor engineering machinery*" 
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  [NVIC 07-14  Task  1.1.H(S)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/nvic-07-14.pdf), MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment [OICEW-4-1D]({{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Engine/OICEW-4-1D) *Monitor engineering machinery*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

Carry out a watch routine appropriate to the duties of a rating forming part of an engine-room watch.

</td><td markdown='1'>

[RFPEW-A1.2](../../tables/34.html#RFPEW-A1.2) Engine-room watchkeeping procedures

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a steam vessel at sea or at anchor in clean water, on a simulator, or in a laboratory,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate monitors steam distilling plant.

<br>

<div class="tooltip">Note 1
<span class="tooltiptext">
Not performing this task will limit the candidate’s endorsement to motor and/or gas-turbine propelled vessels only.

This task is not required for steam propulsion and no limitation will be placed on the steam vessel endorsement if this task is not completed.
</span>
</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Checks plant’s operational status;
2. Checks sea-water feed, brine, distillate, and condensate drains pump suction and discharge pressures as appropriate;
3. Checks air-ejector steam supply pressure;
4. Checks sea-water feed inlet temperature;
5. Checks distillate outlet temperature;
6. Checks shell vacuums;
7. Checks feed-water-heater inlet pressure and temperature;
8. Verifies and checks distillate-pump discharge to proper tank;
9. Observes the position of the 3-way valve to ensure it is not tripped, unless in the case of high distillate salinity;
10. Takes water-meter reading;
11. Checks distillate salinity; and
12. Notifies the watch engineer of any unusual or unsafe conditions

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
