---
title: Monitor auxiliary boiler
subtitle: RFPEW Task 3.1.D(M/G) 
task_number: 3.1.D(M/G)
location: "* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-4E3I %} *Monitor and operate auxiliary boiler*" 
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  [NVIC 07-14  Task  3.1.D(M/G)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/nvic-07-14.pdf), MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment {% assessment OICEW-4E3I %} *Monitor and operate auxiliary boiler*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

For keeping a safe boiler watch: Maintain the correct water levels and steam pressures

</td><td markdown='1'>

[RFPEW-A2.1](../../tables/34.html#RFPEW-A2.1) Safe operation of boilers

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a motor or gas turbine vessel, on a simulator, or in a laboratory,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate monitors the oil-fired or waste-heat auxiliary boiler.

<br>

<div class="tooltip">Note 3
<span class="tooltiptext">
Not performing this task will limit the candidate’s endorsement to motor and/or gas-turbine propelled vessels without waste-heat or auxiliary boilers. 
</span>
</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate performs either (A) or (B): 

(A) OIL-FIRED AUXILIARY BOILER

1. Monitors the steam drum pressure and water level;
2. Monitors the feed water pressure;
3. Monitors the fuel oil service pump suction and discharge pressures and fuel-oil supply pressure and temperature to the supply header and applicable fuel oil strainer pressure drops;
4. Monitors the fuel oil settling/service tank levels and temperatures;
5. Strips fuel oil settling tanks of moisture as appropriate;
6. Monitors the stack temperature;
7. Monitors the atomizing steam pressure as applicable;
8. Observes condition of flame through peephole;
9. Visually inspects boiler casing, hand holes, manholes, and piping for leaks;
10. Promptly wipes up any oil accumulations presenting a fire hazard;
11. Notifies the watch engineer of any unusual or unsafe conditions, unusual sounds, or vibrations; and
12. Takes proper action to prevent safety and pollution violations. Note: Recorded readings from analog gauges should be +/- 5% of actual, except boiler water level should be +/- 1” of actual. 

(B) WASTE HEAT AUXILIARY BOILER

1. Monitors the steam drum pressure and water level;
2. Monitors the feed water pressure;
3. Monitors the feed pump suction and discharge pressures;
4. Monitors the feed tank level and temperature;
5. Monitors the boiler water circulating pump suction and discharge pressures, as applicable;
6. Monitors the exhaust gas inlet temperature
7. Monitors the stack temperature;
8. Visually inspects boiler casing, hand holes, manholes, and
9. piping for leaks;
10. Notifies the watch engineer of any unusual or unsafe conditions, unusual sounds, or vibrations; and
11. Takes proper action to prevent safety and pollution violations. Note: Recorded readings from analog gauges should be +/- 5% of actual, except boiler water level should be +/- 1” of actual.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
