---
title: Monitor main propulsion boiler
subtitle: RFPEW Task 3.1.C 
task_number: 3.1.C
location: "* Successfully complete MMA Assessment [OICEW-4-1D]({{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Engine/OICEW-4-1D) *Monitor engineering machinery*" 
---


### MMA Method

In order to satisfy  [NVIC 07-14  Task  3.1.C]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/nvic-07-14.pdf), MMA students must:

* Successfully complete MMA Assessment [OICEW-4-1D]({{site.baseurl}}/assessments/Engine/OICEW-4-1D) *Monitor engineering machinery*


### NVIC Method

<a onclick="togglevisibility('nvic_methods')" >See NVIC method.</a>

<div id='nvic_methods' class='hide'>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th class='forty'> STCW Competence </th>
<th class='sixty'> Knowledge, Understanding, and Proficiency </th>
</tr>
</thead>




<tbody>
<tr><td markdown='1'>

For keeping a safe boiler watch: Maintain the correct water levels and steam pressures

</td><td markdown='1'>

[RFPEW-A2.1](../../tables/34.html#RFPEW-A2.1) Safe operation of boilers

</td></tr>


</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<thead>
<tr><th class='twenty'>  Condition </th><th class='twenty'> Behavior </th><th  class='sixty'>Standard </th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody >



<tr><td markdown='1'>

On a steam vessel, on a simulator, or in a laboratory,

</td><td markdown='1'>

the candidate monitors the main propulsion boiler.

<br>

<div class="tooltip">Note 1
<span class="tooltiptext">
Not performing this task will limit the candidate’s endorsement to motor and/or gas-turbine propelled vessels only.

This task is not required for steam propulsion and no limitation will be placed on the steam vessel endorsement if this task is not completed.
</span>
</div>


</td><td markdown='1'>

The candidate:

1. Monitors the steam drum pressure and water level, with water level being taken at both the gauge glass and remote level indicator;
2. Monitors superheater and de-superheater outlet pressures and temperatures;
3. Monitors feed water pressure and temperature;
4. Monitors the fuel oil service pump suction and discharge pressures and fuel-oil supply pressure and temperature to the supply header and applicable fuel oil strainer pressure drops;
5. Monitors the fuel oil settling/service tank levels and temperatures;
6. Strips fuel oil settling tanks of moisture as appropriate;
7. Monitors forced draft damper position and combustion air pressure and temperature;
8. Monitors stack temperature;
9. Monitors atomizing steam pressure as applicable;
10. Observes stack gases leaving boiler through periscope;
11. Monitors flue gas analysis readings as applicable;
12. Monitors boiler water analysis readings as applicable;
13. Observes condition of flame through peephole and checks for the presence of clinkers;
14. Visually inspects boiler casing, hand holes, manholes, and piping for leaks;
15. N the watch engineer of any unusual or unsafe conditions, unusual sounds, or vibrations; and
16. Takes proper action to prevent safety and pollution violations. Note: Recorded readings from analog gauges should be +/- 5% of actual, except boiler water level should be +/- 1” of actual.

</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
