---
cnum: EN-3213
title: "Refrigeration"
subtitle: "Course EN-3213"
major: "E"
---
### Course Description

An in-depth study of refrigeration and the design, operation, maintenance, and repair of environmental control systems. The impact of refrigerants regarding ozone depletion and global warming is covered in detail. [Lab time required]

This course consists of three 1-hour classes a week for a semester, six 3-hour labs  with practical assessments, and a comprehensive final exam.

### Entrance requirements

* Explain the concept of a closed cycle
* Explain the steam cycle and its use of superheat and sub-cooling within the cycle
* Explain and define sensible heat and latent heat
* Calculate formulae using simple algebra
* Display their knowledge OF pumps and valves (as learned in Auxiliary machinery)


### Learning Objectives

**Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following STCW elements:**

* [OICEW-A4.1]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-A4.1) *Basic construction and operation principles of refrigeration, air-conditioning and ventilation systems*
* [OICEW-A4.3]({{site.baseurl}}/tables/31.html#OICEW-A4.3) *Preparation, operation, fault detection and measures to prevent damage for refrigeration, air-conditioning and ventilation systems*

**Demonstrate proficiency in the following skills:**

* {% assessment OICEW-5-1B %} *Start refrigeration system*
* {% assessment OICEW-5-1C %} *Shut down refrigeration system*

### Topics

1. Introduction
2. Fundamentals
3. Safety
4. Temperature, Measurement
5. Principals of Matter
6. Thermodynamics
7. Fluid Pressure and Gas Law
8. Refrigeration Cycle
9. System Components and Operation
10. Refrigerants
11. Refrigerant Management
12. Refrigerant Charging
13. Compressors
14. Condensers
15. Evaporators
16. Metering Devices
17. Fundamentals of Air Conditioning
19. Recovery and Reclaiming
21. Refrigerant Servicing and Testing Equipment



**Other objectives**



* Explain the purpose and interrelations of the components of a refrigeration system
* Explain the basic construction and operating principles of refrigeration, air-conditioning and ventilation systems.
* Properly prepare, start, operate, fault detect and determine through measurement the operating status of  refrigeration systems system to ensure damage prevention.
* Determine the refrigerant used in a system
* Explain the process to perform leak detection, system maintenance and repair
* Safely recover, evacuate, recharge a system
* Calculate required refrigeration load


### For more information, see 

* {% imagelink EN-3213-Phelan-S16.pdf %} 
* {% imagelink EN3213-labmanual-F15.pdf %} 



